                                                              -*- org -*-
#+TITLE: Guix NEWS – history of user-visible changes
#+STARTUP: content hidestars

Copyright © 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 Ludovic Courtès <ludo@gnu.org>

  Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification,
  are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
  notice and this notice are preserved.

Please send Guix bug reports to bug-guix@gnu.org.

* Changes in 0.14.0 (since 0.13.0)

** Package management

*** ‘guix package’ displays how much will be downloaded
*** ‘guix package’ warns about insufficient disk space
*** ‘guix package’ now reports package collisions early on
*** ‘guix package --search’ sorts results by relevance
*** ‘guix pull’ now fetches code directly over Git using Guile-Git
*** Substitutes can be downloaded from servers equivalent to the authorized ones
*** New ‘guix-daemon’ options: ‘--listen’, ‘--timeout’, ‘--max-silent-time’
*** New ‘guix weather’ command
*** ‘guix publish --cache’ now also caches uncompressed items
*** ‘guix publish’ no longer removes live items from its cache
*** ‘guix challenge’ now displays an overall summary
*** ‘guix refresh’ no longer uses FTP for GNU and GNOME packages
*** ‘guix refresh’ has a new ‘-m’ or ‘--manifest’ option
*** New ‘refresh’ checker for ‘guix lint’
*** New ‘json’ importer for ‘guix import’ to simplify first packages
*** New ‘texlive’ importer for ‘guix import’

** Distribution

*** GuixSD installation image is now available as ISO-9660
*** GuixSD installation image now includes an ‘sshd’ service
*** New (gnu bootloaders) API, with support for U-Boot and extlinux
*** ‘grub-configuration’ is deprecated in favor of ‘bootloader-configuration’
*** ‘%desktop-services’ now includes NetworkManager instead of Wicd
*** The (uuid …) form can now specify FAT32 and ISO-9660 UUIDs
*** ‘guix system’ now reports missing file system UUIDs and labels
*** ‘guix system’ can provide hints when reporting unbound variables
*** New ‘--file-system-type’ option for ‘guix system disk-image’
*** ‘guix system disk-image’ can now creates ISO-9660 images
*** ‘guix system vm-image’ & co. automatically estimate the image size
*** ‘guix system vm’ now uses overlayfs instead of unionfs
*** ‘guix system init’ displays a progress bar while copying files
*** TeX Live is now also available as a set of small ‘texlive-’ packages
*** New ‘guix system search’ command to search for services
*** New services

certbot, fcgiwrap, gdm, git-http, knot, libvirt, memcached, mongodb, mpd,
murmur, rsync, tailon, sysctl

*** 1211 new packages

0xffff, adms, aegisub, android-udev-rules, ant-apache-bcel, ant-junit,
archivemount, armagetronad, asco, aspell-dict-ca, atool, axoloti-patcher,
axoloti-runtime, bap, bismark, bitshuffle, blis, blis-haswell, blis-knl,
blis-sandybridge, bmon, cadaver, caja, capstone, cataclysm-dda, catcodec,
cheese, cinnamon-desktop, cl-unicode, cl-yale-haskell, classpath, cloc,
cmdtest, conda, coq-bignums, coq-coquelicot, coq-flocq, coq-gappa,
coq-interval, coq-mathcomp, cowsay, cpputest, cpuid, crawl-tiles, criu,
crypto++, cube, cubicle, ddate, deja-dup, dino, dirvish, discount,
disorderfs, dos2unix, dssi, ebtables, ecl-cl-unicode, eid-mw, eless,
emacs-2048-game, emacs-autothemer, emacs-base16-theme,
emacs-bash-completion, emacs-browse-at-remote, emacs-cnfonts,
emacs-company-quickhelp, emacs-dired-hacks, emacs-direnv,
emacs-disable-mouse, emacs-easy-kill, emacs-el2org, emacs-emamux,
emacs-engine-mode, emacs-erc-hl-nicks, emacs-evil-matchit, emacs-exwm-x,
emacs-ggtags, emacs-git-messenger, emacs-gitpatch, emacs-go-mode,
emacs-graphviz-dot-mode, emacs-helm-make, emacs-helm-projectile,
emacs-helm-swoop, emacs-highlight-stages, emacs-highlight-symbol,
emacs-idris-mode, emacs-inf-ruby, emacs-jinja2-mode, emacs-json-snatcher,
emacs-julia-mode, emacs-minitest, emacs-mustache, emacs-nix-mode,
emacs-olivetti, emacs-org-contrib, emacs-org-edit-latex,
emacs-org-pomodoro, emacs-org2web, emacs-pos-tip, emacs-prop-menu,
emacs-pyim, emacs-pyim-basedict, emacs-rainbow-mode, emacs-restclient,
emacs-rpm-spec-mode, emacs-rspec, emacs-sparql-mode, emacs-sr-speedbar,
emacs-switch-window, emacs-tablist, emacs-tiny, emacs-transmission,
emacs-tuareg, emacs-wgrep, emacs-which-key, emacs-writeroom,
emacs-yasnippet-snippets, eog-plugins, eolie, es-dump-restore, escpr, et,
f-seq, f2fs-tools, faba-icon-theme, fbreader, ffms2, five-or-more,
florence, font-dosis, font-fira-sans, font-lato, font-mathjax,
font-open-dyslexic, font-rachana, foo2zjs, foomatic-filters, footswitch,
fping, freehdl, frei0r-plugins, fstrm, fzy, gama, gavl, gemma, geomyidae,
gess, ghc-abstract-deque, ghc-abstract-par, ghc-aws, ghc-base-prelude,
ghc-boxes, ghc-chunked-data, ghc-conduit-combinators,
ghc-contravariant-extras, ghc-crypto-api, ghc-crypto-api-tests,
ghc-cryptohash-md5, ghc-cryptohash-sha1, ghc-data-hash, ghc-edisonapi,
ghc-edisoncore, ghc-edit-distance, ghc-either, ghc-entropy,
ghc-equivalence, ghc-erf, ghc-errors, ghc-fail, ghc-foldl,
ghc-geniplate-mirror, ghc-gitrev, ghc-glob, ghc-hex, ghc-http-conduit,
ghc-http-date, ghc-http2, ghc-language-haskell-extract, ghc-math-functions,
ghc-monad-par, ghc-monad-par-extras, ghc-monadplus, ghc-monadrandom,
ghc-mono-traversable, ghc-murmur-hash, ghc-mwc-random, ghc-network-info,
ghc-pretty-hex, ghc-psqueues, ghc-puremd5, ghc-rebase, ghc-simple-sendfile,
ghc-statistics, ghc-stmonadtrans, ghc-strict, ghc-test-framework-th,
ghc-tuple-th, ghc-uuid, ghc-uuid-types, ghc-vector-algorithms,
ghc-vector-builder, ghc-vector-th-unbox, ghc-wai-conduit, ghc-warp,
ghc-warp-tls, ghostscript-with-cups, git-remote-gcrypt, git-repo,
glusterfs, gnome-clocks, gnome-default-applications, gnome-planner,
gnome-todo, gnome-video-effects, gnucobol, gnutls-dane,
go-github-com-audriusbutkevicius-cli,
go-github-com-audriusbutkevicius-go-nat-pmp,
go-github-com-audriusbutkevicius-kcp-go,
go-github-com-audriusbutkevicius-pfilter, go-github-com-bkaradzic-go-lz4,
go-github-com-calmh-du, go-github-com-calmh-xdr,
go-github-com-ccding-go-stun,
go-github-com-chmduquesne-rollinghash-adler32,
go-github-com-d4l3k-messagediff, go-github-com-edsrzf-mmap-go,
go-github-com-gobwas-glob, go-github-com-gogo-protobuf,
go-github-com-gogo-protobuf-protoc-gen-gogo,
go-github-com-golang-groupcache-lru, go-github-com-golang-snappy,
go-github-com-jackpal-gateway, go-github-com-kardianos-osext,
go-github-com-kballard-go-shellquote, go-github-com-lib-pq,
go-github-com-minio-sha256-simd, go-github-com-oschwald-geoip2-golang,
go-github-com-oschwald-maxminddb-golang, go-github-com-petermattis-goid,
go-github-com-pkg-errors, go-github-com-rcrowley-go-metrics,
go-github-com-sasha-s-go-deadlock, go-github-com-stathat-go,
go-github-com-syndtr-goleveldb, go-github-com-templexxx-cpufeat,
go-github-com-templexxx-reedsolomon, go-github-com-templexxx-xor,
go-github-com-thejerf-suture, go-github-com-tjfoc-gmsm-sm4,
go-github-com-vitrun-qart-coding, go-github-com-vitrun-qart-gf256,
go-github-com-vitrun-qart-qr, go-github-com-xtaci-smux,
go-github-com-zillode-notify, go-golang-org-x-crypto-bcrypt,
go-golang-org-x-crypto-blowfish, go-golang-org-x-crypto-cast5,
go-golang-org-x-crypto-pbkdf2, go-golang-org-x-crypto-salsa20,
go-golang-org-x-crypto-tea, go-golang-org-x-crypto-twofish,
go-golang-org-x-crypto-xtea, go-golang-org-x-net-bpf,
go-golang-org-x-net-context, go-golang-org-x-net-internal-iana,
go-golang-org-x-net-ipv4, go-golang-org-x-net-ipv6,
go-golang-org-x-net-proxy, go-golang-org-x-sys-unix,
go-golang-org-x-text-transform, go-golang-org-x-text-unicode-norm,
go-golang-org-x-time-rate, godot, gpa, gpick, grfcodec, groff-minimal,
grub-hybrid, gsound, gspell, gst-transcoder, gst123, guile-colorized,
guile-dsv, guile-libctl, guile-ncurses-with-gpm, guile-wiredtiger,
guile2.0-bytestructures, guile2.0-git, guile2.0-gnutls, guile2.0-guix,
guile2.0-lib, gwl, harminv, hdf-java, heimdall, ht, hugin,
hunspell-dict-en, hunspell-dict-en-au, hunspell-dict-en-ca,
hunspell-dict-en-gb, hunspell-dict-en-gb-ize, hunspell-dict-en-us,
hunspell-dict-fr, hunspell-dict-fr-moderne, hunspell-dict-fr-reforme1990,
hunspell-dict-fr-toutesvariantes, ibutils, icedtea-web, igraph, ikiwiki,
imb-openmpi, imp, infiniband-diags, jamvm, java-aopalliance,
java-aqute-bnd-annotation, java-aqute-bndlib, java-aqute-libg,
java-assertj, java-bouncycastle-bcpkix, java-bouncycastle-bcprov, java-bsh,
java-classpathx-servletapi, java-cofoja, java-commons-bcel,
java-commons-beanutils, java-commons-collections, java-commons-csv,
java-commons-jexl, java-datanucleus-javax-persistence,
java-eclipse-jetty-http, java-eclipse-jetty-http, java-eclipse-jetty-io,
java-eclipse-jetty-io, java-eclipse-jetty-jmx, java-eclipse-jetty-jmx,
java-eclipse-jetty-perf-helper, java-eclipse-jetty-security,
java-eclipse-jetty-security, java-eclipse-jetty-server,
java-eclipse-jetty-server, java-eclipse-jetty-servlet,
java-eclipse-jetty-servlet, java-eclipse-jetty-test-helper,
java-eclipse-jetty-util, java-eclipse-jetty-util,
java-fasterxml-jackson-annotations, java-fasterxml-jackson-core,
java-fasterxml-jackson-databind, java-fasterxml-jackson-dataformat-xml,
java-fasterxml-jackson-dataformat-yaml,
java-fasterxml-jackson-modules-base-jaxb, java-fest-assert, java-fest-test,
java-fest-util, java-geronimo-xbean-reflect, java-guice,
java-guice-servlet, java-hdrhistogram, java-iq80-snappy, java-javaewah,
java-javax-inject, java-jboss-javassist, java-jboss-jms-api-spec,
java-jbzip2, java-jcommander, java-jdom, java-jeromq, java-jgit, java-jgit,
java-jmock-junit4, java-jmock-legacy, java-jnacl, java-kafka-clients,
java-lmax-disruptor, java-log4j-1.2-api, java-log4j-core, java-lz4,
java-mail, java-microemulator-cldc, java-mvel2, java-ops4j-base-io,
java-ops4j-base-lang, java-ops4j-base-monitors, java-ops4j-base-spi,
java-ops4j-base-store, java-ops4j-base-util, java-ops4j-base-util-property,
java-ops4j-pax-exam-core, java-ops4j-pax-exam-core-junit,
java-ops4j-pax-exam-core-spi, java-ops4j-pax-tinybundles, java-osgi-cmpn,
java-osgi-dto, java-osgi-framework, java-osgi-namespace-contract,
java-osgi-namespace-extender, java-osgi-namespace-service,
java-osgi-resource, java-osgi-service-cm,
java-osgi-service-component-annotations, java-osgi-service-jdbc,
java-osgi-service-log, java-osgi-service-metatype-annotations,
java-osgi-service-packageadmin, java-osgi-service-repository,
java-osgi-service-resolver, java-osgi-util-function,
java-osgi-util-promise, java-osgi-util-tracker, java-picard, java-picard,
java-plexus-archiver, java-plexus-classworlds,
java-plexus-container-default, java-plexus-container-default-bootstrap,
java-plexus-io, java-powermock-api-easymock, java-powermock-api-support,
java-powermock-core, java-powermock-modules-junit4,
java-powermock-modules-junit4-common, java-powermock-reflect,
java-slf4j-api, java-slf4j-simple, java-snakeyaml, java-snappy,
java-snappy, java-stax2-api, java-stringtemplate, java-stringtemplate,
java-testng, java-tomcat, java-tukaani-xz, java-woodstox-core,
java-xerial-core, javacc, javacc, jmtpfs, jo, john-the-ripper-jumbo,
js-datatables, js-es5-shim, js-highlight, js-html5shiv, js-json2,
js-mathjax, js-respond, js-selectize, js-strftime, kaiju, kallisto,
kbd-neo, kde-frameworkintegration, kdelibs4support, kdewebkit, keepassxc,
kentutils, khtml, kjs, kjsembed, kmediaplayer, kodi-cli, kross, leocad,
libdmtx, libdvbpsi, libebml, libechonest, libfabric, libgc-back-pointers,
libgdata, libgxps, libinfinity, liblinebreak, libmatekbd, libmatemixer,
libmatroska, libmd, libmediainfo, libnet, libngspice, liboauth, libproxy,
libserialport, libsignal-protocol-c, libsigrok, libsigrokdecode, libzen,
libzip, linenoise, linkchecker, linux-libre-arm-omap2plus, livemedia-utils,
loksh, lollypop, ltris, lua5.1-bitop, lv2-devel, lxc, lxqt-build-tools,
lziprecover, marco, masscan, mate, mate-applets, mate-control-center,
mate-media, mate-panel, mate-session-manager, mate-settings-daemon,
mate-terminal, mediainfo, meep, memcached, mescc-tools, mgba, minicom,
mksh, mkvtoolnix, monero, monero-core, mongodb, motti, mpb, mtr, mujs,
multitail, musescore, mygui, ncurses-with-gpm, network-manager-openvpn,
newsboat, nftables, nginx-documentation, ngspice, nlohmann-json-cpp, nml,
nototools, nxbelld, nzbget, ocaml-async, ocaml-async-extra,
ocaml-async-kernel, ocaml-async-rpc-kernel, ocaml-async-unix,
ocaml-camomile, ocaml-core, ocaml-core-kernel, ocaml-cstruct,
ocaml-easy-format, ocaml-ezjsonm, ocaml-graph, ocaml-hex, ocaml-jbuilder,
ocaml-lambda-term, ocaml-ocplib-endian, ocaml-piqi, ocaml-piqilib,
ocaml-ppx-bin-prot, ocaml-ppx-custom-printf, ocaml-ppx-expect,
ocaml-ppx-fail, ocaml-ppx-fields-conv, ocaml-ppx-jane, ocaml-ppx-pipebang,
ocaml-ppx-sexp-message, ocaml-ppx-sexp-value, ocaml-re, ocaml-uri,
ocaml-utop, ocaml-uuidm, ocaml-zed, ogre, ois, oksh, opari2,
open-adventure, openfoam, openmolar, openmpi-thread-multiple, openmw,
openrct2, openscenegraph, opensm, optcomp, os-prober, otf2, packagekit,
paml, papagayo, papi, parcimonie, pass-git-helper, pdsh,
perl-archive-extract, perl-b-keywords, perl-browser-open, perl-carp-always,
perl-cgi-session, perl-clone-pp, perl-convert-binhex,
perl-crypt-random-source, perl-data, perl-data-perl, perl-data-printer,
perl-data-record, perl-devel-cycle, perl-devel-hide, perl-file-basedir,
perl-file-configdir, perl-file-desktopentry, perl-file-mimeinfo,
perl-file-sharedir-dist, perl-gnupg-interface, perl-hash-fieldhash,
perl-html-scrubber, perl-html-tidy, perl-importer, perl-libintl-perl,
perl-libtime-parsedate, perl-libtime-period, perl-list-moreutils-xs,
perl-lwp-online, perl-mailtools, perl-math-random-isaac,
perl-math-random-isaac-xs, perl-math-random-secure, perl-mime-tools,
perl-moox, perl-moox-cmd, perl-moox-configfromfile,
perl-moox-file-configdir, perl-moox-handlesvia, perl-moox-late,
perl-moox-options, perl-net-dbus, perl-net-dbus-glib, perl-net-idn-encode,
perl-params-validationcompiler, perl-parse-recdescent,
perl-proc-invokeeditor, perl-ref-util-xs, perl-regexp-util,
perl-sort-naturally, perl-specio, perl-sub-info, perl-term-size-any,
perl-term-size-perl, perl-term-table, perl-test-command,
perl-test-cpan-meta, perl-test-cpan-meta-json, perl-test-eol,
perl-test-file-sharedir-dist, perl-test-memory-cycle, perl-test-notabs,
perl-test-taint, perl-test2-bundle-extended, perl-test2-plugin-nowarnings,
perl-text-markdown-discount, perl-text-template, perl-tree-xpathengine,
perl-type-tie, perl-type-tiny, perl-type-tiny-xs, perl-types-path-tiny,
perl-xml-filter-buffertext, perl-xml-handler-yawriter, perl-xml-sax-writer,
perl-xml-twig, perl-xml-xpathengine, perl-yaml-libyaml, phylip, pidentd,
plink-ng, pngcrush, polyml, premake, prison, procenv, protobuf-c, psm,
pt-scotch32, pulsemixer, pulseview, pydf, python-anaconda-client,
python-ansi2html, python-apache-libcloud, python-apispec,
python-asn1crypto, python-attrs, python-automat, python-backpack,
python-backports-csv, python-behave-web-api, python-betamax-matchers,
python-bottle, python-capstone, python-capturer, python-cbor, python-clf,
python-clyent, python-coloredlogs, python-colormath, python-conda,
python-constantly, python-dukpy, python-editdistance, python-flaky,
python-flasgger, python-flask-httpauth, python-flask-migrate,
python-flask-principal, python-flask-script, python-flex, python-genshi,
python-ghp-import, python-grako, python-graphviz,
python-guzzle-sphinx-theme, python-honcho, python-html5-parser,
python-humanfriendly, python-igraph, python-incremental,
python-internetarchive, python-jsonpatch, python-jsonpatch,
python-jsonpointer, python-jsonrpclib-pelix, python-linecache2,
python-lmdb, python-lzstring, python-m2r, python-marshmallow,
python-misaka, python-networkx2, python-nose-randomly, python-nose-timer,
python-numpy-next, python-packaging, python-parameterized, python-pastel,
python-pbr-minimal, python-pendulum, python-pkginfo, python-py-ubjson,
python-py2bit, python-pyaes, python-pyalsaaudio, python-pycanberra,
python-pyclipper, python-pydiff, python-pydot, python-pynacl,
python-pyodbc, python-pyqrcode, python-pyqt+qscintilla, python-pysocks,
python-pytest-capturelog, python-pytzdata, python-qscintilla, python-radon,
python-ratelimiter, python-regex, python-relatorio, python-rencode,
python-rfc3987, python-ruamel.yaml, python-schedule, python-schema,
python-schema, python-setuptools-scm-git-archive, python-smmap2,
python-spectra, python-sphinxcontrib-websupport, python-sql, python-sure,
python-swagger-spec-validator, python-tornado-http-auth, python-tqdm,
python-traceback2, python-twine, python-uniseg, python-uritemplate,
python-validate-email, python-verboselogs, python-xapian-bindings,
python-xenon, python-xsge, python2-anaconda-client, python2-aniso8601,
python2-ansi2html, python2-apache-libcloud, python2-apispec,
python2-asn1crypto, python2-attrs, python2-automat, python2-backpack,
python2-backports-csv, python2-behave-web-api, python2-betamax-matchers,
python2-booleanoperations, python2-bottle, python2-capstone,
python2-capturer, python2-clf, python2-clyent, python2-coloredlogs,
python2-colormath, python2-conda, python2-constantly, python2-couleur,
python2-defcon, python2-dukpy, python2-flaky, python2-flasgger,
python2-flask-httpauth, python2-flask-migrate, python2-flask-principal,
python2-flask-script, python2-flex, python2-genshi, python2-ghp-import,
python2-grako, python2-graphviz, python2-guzzle-sphinx-theme,
python2-honcho, python2-html5-parser, python2-htseq, python2-httpretty,
python2-humanfriendly, python2-incremental, python2-internetarchive,
python2-jsonpatch, python2-jsonpatch, python2-jsonpointer,
python2-jsonrpclib-pelix, python2-libmpsse, python2-linecache2,
python2-lmdb, python2-lzstring, python2-m2r, python2-marshmallow,
python2-misaka, python2-neo4j-driver, python2-networkx2,
python2-nose-randomly, python2-nose-timer, python2-numpy-next,
python2-packaging, python2-parameterized, python2-parse-type,
python2-pastel, python2-pbr-minimal, python2-pendulum, python2-pgpdump,
python2-pkginfo, python2-py2neo, python2-pyaes, python2-pyalsaaudio,
python2-pyclipper, python2-pydiff, python2-pydot, python2-pyodbc,
python2-pyopengl, python2-pysocks, python2-pytest-capturelog,
python2-pytzdata, python2-radon, python2-ratelimiter, python2-rednose,
python2-regex, python2-relatorio, python2-rencode,
python2-requests-toolbelt, python2-rfc3987, python2-roca-detect,
python2-ruamel.yaml, python2-schedule, python2-schema, python2-schema,
python2-setuptools-scm-git-archive, python2-smmap2, python2-spectra,
python2-sql, python2-steadymark, python2-sure,
python2-swagger-spec-validator, python2-tqdm, python2-traceback2,
python2-twine, python2-ufolib, python2-uniseg, python2-uritemplate,
python2-validate-email, python2-verboselogs, python2-xenon, python2-xsge,
qgpgme, qjson, qmidiroute, qscintilla, qtnetworkauth, qtremoteobjects,
qtspeech, quagga, qucs, qucs-s, r-annotationfilter, r-annotationhub,
r-aroma-light, r-auc, r-bbmle, r-bindr, r-bindrcpp, r-biovizbase, r-blob,
r-broom, r-calibrate, r-circlize, r-compare, r-complexheatmap,
r-copynumber, r-corrplot, r-crosstalk, r-cvst, r-dbplyr, r-ddalpha,
r-dendextend, r-deseq, r-dexseq, r-dimred, r-directlabels,
r-dirichletmultinomial, r-distillery, r-drr, r-edaseq, r-emdbook, r-energy,
r-ensembldb, r-erma, r-extremes, r-fastmatch, r-fastseg, r-fdrtool, r-ff,
r-ffbase, r-fit-models, r-fitdistrplus, r-fithic, r-forcats, r-gage,
r-genomicfiles, r-getoptlong, r-ggally, r-ggbio, r-ggdendro, r-ggrepel,
r-globaloptions, r-glue, r-gower, r-gprofiler, r-gqtlbase, r-gqtlstats,
r-gviz, r-gwascat, r-hardyweinberg, r-hitc, r-homo-sapiens, r-inline,
r-interactivedisplaybase, r-ipred, r-keggrest, r-ksamples, r-laeken,
r-lava, r-ldblock, r-limsolve, r-lmoments, r-lmtest, r-lpsolve,
r-lubridate, r-methylkit, r-mice, r-organismdbi, r-pcapp, r-pdist,
r-performanceanalytics, r-pkgconfig, r-png, r-powerlaw, r-prettyunits,
r-prodlim, r-progress, r-proxy, r-psych, r-qvalue, r-rcpproll, r-recipes,
r-reshape, r-rgraphviz, r-rlang, r-rmpi, r-rmtstat, r-rmysql, r-robust,
r-rook, r-rrcov, r-rsofia, r-shape, r-shiny, r-sm, r-snpstats, r-sp,
r-sparql, r-stringdist, r-suppdists, r-sushi, r-tgconfig, r-tgstat,
r-tidyselect, r-timedate, r-vcd, r-vioplot, r-xts, radare2, retux,
ritornello, rmath-standalone, roguebox-adventures, rosegarden, rss-bridge,
rtl-sdr, ruby-code-statistics, ruby-highline, ruby-httpclient,
ruby-multi-json, ruby-options, ruby-progress_bar, ruby-rubyzip, s-shell,
sakura, sbcl-cl-ppcre-unicode, sbcl-cl-uglify-js, sbcl-cl-unicode,
sbcl-iterate, sbcl-parse-js, sbcl-parse-number, scons-python2,
scorep-openmpi, scotch32, sigrok-cli, sigrok-firmware-fx2lafw,
simplescreenrecorder, smu, snd, sooperlooper, sorcer, spectrwm, spiped,
sqlite-with-fts3, stgit, syncthing, tadbit, texlive-bin, texlive-dvips,
texlive-fontname, texlive-fonts-amsfonts, texlive-fonts-cm,
texlive-fonts-ec, texlive-fonts-knuth-lib, texlive-fonts-latex,
texlive-fonts-rsfs, texlive-fonts-stmaryrd, texlive-fonts-txfonts,
texlive-generic-babel-english, texlive-generic-dehyph-exptl,
texlive-generic-epsf, texlive-generic-hyph-utf8, texlive-generic-ifxetex,
texlive-generic-pdftex, texlive-generic-tex-ini-files,
texlive-generic-unicode-data, texlive-latex-acmart, texlive-latex-acronym,
texlive-latex-amscls, texlive-latex-amsfonts, texlive-latex-amsmath,
texlive-latex-amsrefs, texlive-latex-anysize, texlive-latex-appendix,
texlive-latex-babel, texlive-latex-base, texlive-latex-bigfoot,
texlive-latex-blindtext, texlive-latex-capt-of, texlive-latex-changebar,
texlive-latex-cmap, texlive-latex-colortbl, texlive-latex-cyrillic,
texlive-latex-dinbrief, texlive-latex-draftwatermark, texlive-latex-eepic,
texlive-latex-enumitem, texlive-latex-environ, texlive-latex-eqparbox,
texlive-latex-eso-pic, texlive-latex-etoolbox, texlive-latex-expdlist,
texlive-latex-fancybox, texlive-latex-fancyhdr, texlive-latex-fancyvrb,
texlive-latex-filecontents, texlive-latex-filemod, texlive-latex-float,
texlive-latex-fncychap, texlive-latex-fontspec, texlive-latex-footmisc,
texlive-latex-framed, texlive-latex-g-brief, texlive-latex-galois,
texlive-latex-gcite, texlive-latex-geometry, texlive-latex-graphics,
texlive-latex-hyperref, texlive-latex-ifplatform, texlive-latex-jknapltx,
texlive-latex-l3kernel, texlive-latex-l3packages, texlive-latex-lh,
texlive-latex-listings, texlive-latex-mdwtools, texlive-latex-multirow,
texlive-latex-natbib, texlive-latex-oberdiek, texlive-latex-overpic,
texlive-latex-parskip, texlive-latex-pdfpages, texlive-latex-polyglossia,
texlive-latex-preview, texlive-latex-psfrag, texlive-latex-psnfss,
texlive-latex-pstool, texlive-latex-seminar, texlive-latex-subfigure,
texlive-latex-supertabular, texlive-latex-tabulary,
texlive-latex-threeparttable, texlive-latex-titlesec, texlive-latex-tools,
texlive-latex-trimspaces, texlive-latex-type1cm, texlive-latex-ucs,
texlive-latex-upquote, texlive-latex-url, texlive-latex-varwidth,
texlive-latex-wasysym, texlive-latex-wrapfig, texlive-latex-xcolor,
texlive-luatex-lualibs, texlive-metafont-base, texlive-metapost,
texlive-tex-plain, texlive-tex-texinfo, texlive-tiny, thc-ipv6, tidyp,
tklib, tmuxifier, tome4, toxic, translate-shell, trim-galore, tryton,
trytond, u-boot-odroid-c2, uglify-js, uim, uim-gtk, uim-qt, unbound,
unshield, vcsh, vim-fugitive, virtuoso-ose, vpnc-scripts, websockify,
wget2, wine-next, wine64, xautolock, xautomation, xdg-user-dirs,
xf86-video-freedreno, xmobar, xpra, xsel, xxd, xyce-parallel, xyce-serial,
z3, zathura-pdf-mupdf

*** 1403 package updates

0ad-data@0.0.22-alpha, 0ad@0.0.22-alpha, acct@6.6.4,
adwaita-icon-theme@3.26.0, aisleriot@3.22.4, allegro@5.2.2.0, alot@0.5.1,
alsa-lib@1.1.4.1, alsa-plugins@1.1.4, alsa-utils@1.1.4,
american-fuzzy-lop@2.49b, ansible@2.4.1.0, ant@1.10.1, apr-util@1.6.1,
apr@1.6.3, ardour@5.12, aria2@1.33.1, arm-none-eabi-nano-toolchain@6.4.0,
arm-none-eabi-toolchain@6.4.0, artanis@0.2.1-3, asciinema@1.4.0,
asn1c@0.9.28, aspell-dict-en@2017.01.22-0, at-spi2-atk@2.24.1,
at-spi2-core@2.24.1, atk@2.24.0, attica@5.39.0, audacity@2.2.0,
augeas@1.8.1, autoconf-archive@2017.09.28, autoconf@2.69, automake@1.15.1,
avr-binutils@2.28, awesome@4.2, awscli@1.11.185, babl@0.1.30, baloo@5.39.0,
baobab@3.26.1, bash-completion@2.7, bcftools@1.5, bdb@6.2.32, bdftopcf@1.1,
beets@1.4.5, biber@2.7, bigloo@4.3a, bind@9.11.2,
binutils-static-stripped-tarball@2.28, binutils@2.28, bison@3.0.4,
bitcoin-core@0.15.1, blast+@2.6.0, blender@2.79, bluefish@2.2.10,
bluez-qt@5.39.0, bluez@5.47, boost@1.64.0, borg@1.1.3, bowtie@2.3.2,
brasero@3.12.2, breeze-icons@5.39.0, bspwm@0.9.3, btrfs-progs-static@4.14,
btrfs-progs@4.14, bundler@1.15.4, busybox@1.26.2, bwa@0.7.17,
c-ares@1.13.0, c-toxcore@0.1.10, cairo-xcb@1.14.10, cairo@1.14.10,
calcurse@4.2.2, calf@0.90.0, calibre@3.11.1, capnproto@0.6.1, catimg@2.4.0,
cbatticon@1.6.6, ccid@1.4.28, cd-hit@4.6.8, cdogs-sdl@0.6.6,
certbot@0.19.0, check@0.11.0, chess@6.2.5, chromaprint@1.4.2, clang@3.6.2,
clang@3.7.1, clang@3.8.1, clang@3.9.1, claws-mail@3.15.1, clisp@2.49-60,
clustal-omega@1.2.4, clutter-gst@3.0.24, clutter@1.26.2, cmark@0.28.0,
cmocka@1.1.1, coda@2.18.3, conkeror@1.1.0, connman@1.35, coq@8.7.0,
coreutils-minimal@8.27, coreutils@8.27, cppcheck@1.81, cpphs@1.20.8,
cpupower@4.14.3, crawl@0.20.1, csound@6.09.1, cuirass@0.0.1-10.9cfea9f,
cups-filters@1.17.7, cups-minimal@2.2.4, cups@2.2.4, curl@7.55.1,
curl@7.57.0, cutadapt@1.14, cvs-fast-export@1.43, darktable@2.2.5,
datamash@1.2, dbus@1.10.22, dconf-editor@3.26.2, dconf@0.26.1,
dealii-openmpi@8.5.1, dealii@8.5.1, deeptools@2.5.1, dejagnu@1.6.1,
deutex@5.0.0, devhelp@3.26.0, di@4.44, dialog@1.3-20170509, diamond@0.9.13,
diffoscope@88, diffutils@3.6, ding-libs@0.6.1, dlib@19.7, dnsmasq@2.78,
dovecot@2.2.33.2, drumkv1@0.8.5, dtc@1.4.5, dub@1.5.0, dunst@1.2.0,
e2fsck-static@1.43.6, e2fsprogs@1.43.6, ed@1.14.2, edi@0.5.1, efl@1.20.6,
electrum@3.0, elixir@1.5.2, elogind@232.4, emacs-adaptive-wrap@0.5.1,
emacs-ahungry-theme@1.8.0, emacs-async@1.9.2, emacs-auctex@11.91.0,
emacs-cider@0.15.0, emacs-cyberpunk-theme@1.19, emacs-ebuild-mode@1.37,
emacs-elfeed@2.2.0, emacs-emms@4.4, emacs-ess@16.10, emacs-evil@1.2.13,
emacs-exwm@0.15, emacs-f@0.19.0, emacs-guix@0.3.3, emacs-helm@2.8.5,
emacs-hl-todo@1.8.0, emacs-hydra@0.14.0, emacs-iedit@0.9.9.9,
emacs-lua-mode@20151025.1-652e299cb, emacs-magit-popup@2.12.0,
emacs-markdown-mode@2.3, emacs-minimal@25.3, emacs-neotree@0.5.2,
emacs-no-x-toolkit@25.3, emacs-no-x@25.3, emacs-org@20171116,
emacs-pdf-tools@0.80, emacs-queue@0.2, emacs-s@1.12.0, emacs-slime@2.20,
emacs-undo-tree@0.6.6, emacs-visual-fill-column@1.11,
emacs-with-editor@2.7.0, emacs-yaml-mode@0.0.13, emacs-yasnippet@0.12.2,
emacs@25.3, emacspeak@46.0, enlightenment@0.22.1, eog@3.26.2,
epiphany@3.24.4, erlang@20.1, ethtool@4.13, etl@0.04.22,
eudev-with-hwdb@3.2.2, eudev@3.2.2, evince@3.26.0,
evolution-data-server@3.24.3, exfat-utils@1.2.7, exim@4.89.1, exiv2@0.26,
expat@2.2.1, extra-cmake-modules@5.39.0, eyed3@0.8, fabric@1.13.2,
fasttree@2.1.10, faust@0.9.90, faust@2.1.0, fdisk@2.0.0a1, feh@2.22.2,
ffmpeg@3.3.5, ffmpeg@3.4, file-roller@3.26.2, file@5.30, filezilla@3.27.1,
fio@3.2, fish-guix@0.1.2.1, fish@2.7.0, fizmo@0.8.4, flex@2.6.4,
fluidsynth@1.1.8, font-cns11643@98.1.20170524, font-gnu-unifont@10.0.06,
font-go@20170330-1.f03a046, font-google-noto@20170403, font-hack@3.000,
font-iosevka@1.12.5, fontconfig@2.12.3, fontforge@20170731, fossil@2.2,
fraggenescan@1.30, freeciv@2.5.7, freedoom@0.11.3, freefall@4.14.3,
freeipmi@1.5.7, freetype@2.8, freexl@1.0.4, fuse-exfat@1.2.7, gajim@0.16.8,
gamine@1.5, ganv@1.5.4-1.12f7d6b04,
gcc-cross-sans-libc-arm-none-eabi@6.4.0, gcc-objc++@4.9.4,
gcc-objc++@5.4.0, gcc-objc++@6.4.0, gcc-objc++@7.2.0, gcc-objc@4.9.4,
gcc-objc@5.4.0, gcc-objc@6.4.0, gcc-objc@7.2.0, gcc-toolchain@6.4.0,
gcc-toolchain@7.2.0, gcc@4.9.4, gcc@5.4.0, gcc@6.4.0, gcc@7.2.0,
gcl@2.6.12-1.5956140, gcompris@17.05, gd@2.2.5, gdb-arm-none-eabi@8.0.1,
gdb@8.0.1, gdbm@1.13, gdk-pixbuf+svg@2.36.10, gdk-pixbuf@2.36.10,
gdm@3.24.2, gedit@3.22.1, geoclue@2.4.7, getmail@5.4, gexiv2@0.10.6,
gfortran@6.4.0, gfortran@7.2.0, ghc-aeson-qq@0.8.2, ghc-alex@3.2.3,
ghc-array@0.5.2.0, ghc-asn1-encoding@0.9.5, ghc-asn1-types@0.3.2,
ghc-async@2.1.1.1, ghc-auto-update@0.1.4, ghc-base-orphans@0.6,
ghc-blaze-builder@0.4.0.2, ghc-conduit@1.2.12.1, ghc-happy@1.19.8,
ghc-http-client-tls@0.3.4.1, ghc-http-client@0.5.6.1,
ghc-tasty-rerun@1.1.7, ghc-wai-extra@3.0.13.1, ghc-wai@3.2.1.1,
ghc-x11@1.8, ghc-xmonad-contrib@0.13, ghc@8.0.2, ghostscript-with-x@9.21,
ghostscript@9.21, giac-xcas@1.4.9-33, git-modes@1.2.6, git@2.15.1,
gjs@1.48.6, glade@3.20.2, glib-networking@2.54.1, glib@2.52.3,
glibmm@2.50.1, global@6.5.7, glog@0.3.5, glpk@4.63, gnome-autoar@0.2.2,
gnome-backgrounds@3.26.2, gnome-bluetooth@3.20.1, gnome-calculator@3.26.0,
gnome-calendar@3.26.2, gnome-control-center@3.24.3, gnome-desktop@3.24.2,
gnome-dictionary@3.24.0, gnome-disk-utility@3.26.2, gnome-keyring@3.20.1,
gnome-klotski@3.22.2, gnome-maps@3.26.2, gnome-mines@3.26.0,
gnome-mpv@0.13, gnome-online-accounts@3.24.3, gnome-session@3.24.1,
gnome-settings-daemon@3.24.3, gnome-shell-extensions@3.24.3,
gnome-shell@3.24.3, gnome-sudoku@3.26.0, gnome-system-monitor@3.26.0,
gnome-terminal@3.26.2, gnome-themes-standard@3.22.3,
gnome-tweak-tool@3.24.1, gnome@3.24.3, gnuastro@0.4, gnucash@2.6.18,
gnumeric@1.12.36, gnupg@1.4.22, gnupg@2.0.30, gnupg@2.2.3, gnurl@7.56.1-2,
gnutls@3.5.13, go@1.9.2, gobby@0.5.0, gobject-introspection@1.52.1,
goffice@0.10.36, gparted@0.30.0, gperf@3.1, gptfdisk@1.0.3,
graphicsmagick@1.3.26, graphite2@1.3.10, graphviz@2.40.1, grilo@0.3.3,
gsettings-desktop-schemas@3.24.1, gsl@2.4, gst-libav@1.12.3,
gst-plugins-bad@1.12.3, gst-plugins-base@1.12.3, gst-plugins-good@1.12.3,
gst-plugins-ugly@1.12.3, gstreamer@1.12.3, gtk+@3.22.21, gtkmm@3.22.0,
gtksourceview@3.24.4, guile-git@0.0-4.951a32c, guile-gnome@2.16.5,
guile-lib@0.2.5.1, guile-rsvg@2.18.1-0.05c6a2f, guile-ssh@0.11.2,
guile-static-stripped-tarball@2.2.2, guile-static-stripped@2.2.2,
guile-wisp@0.9.8, guile2.0-ssh@0.11.2, guile2.2-gnutls@3.5.13,
guile2.2-lib@0.2.5.1, guile2.2-ssh@0.11.2, guile@2.0.14, guile@2.2.2,
guile@2.2.3, guitarix-lv2@0.36.1, guitarix@0.36.1, guix@0.13.0-14.91c9b5d,
gvfs@1.32.1, gzochi@0.11.1, harfbuzz@1.5.1, hdf4-alt@4.2.13, hdf4@4.2.13,
hdf5-parallel-openmpi@1.8.19, hdf5@1.8.19, hicolor-icon-theme@0.17,
higan@106, hop@3.1.0-pre2, hplip@3.17.10, htseq@0.9.1, htslib@1.5,
httpd@2.4.27, hubbub@0.3.4, hunspell@1.6.1, hwloc@1.11.8, hyperrogue@10.0g,
i3-wm@4.14.1, ibus-libpinyin@1.9.2, ibus@1.5.17, icecat@52.3.0-gnu1,
icedtea@3.6.0, idr@2.0.3, ijs@9.21, imagemagick@6.9.9-23,
ingen@0.0.0-2.cc4a4db33, iproute2@4.14.1, irssi@1.0.5, isl@0.18,
iso-codes@3.76, isync@1.3.0, jack2@1.9.11-RC1, jasper@2.0.14,
java-htsjdk@2.3.0, java-jmock@2.8.2, java-swt@4.7.1a, jellyfish@2.2.7,
jemalloc@5.0.1, json-glib@1.2.8, jsoncpp@1.8.2, julia@0.6.0,
kactivities-stats@5.39.0, kactivities@5.39.0, kapidox@5.39.0,
karchive@5.39.0, kauth@5.39.0, kbookmarks@5.39.0, kcmutils@5.39.0,
kcodecs@5.39.0, kcompletion@5.39.0, kconfig@5.39.0, kconfigwidgets@5.39.0,
kcoreaddons@5.39.0, kcrash@5.39.0, kdbusaddons@5.39.0, kdeclarative@5.39.0,
kded@5.39.0, kdesignerplugin@5.39.0, kdesu@5.39.0, kdevelop@5.1.2,
kdevplatform@5.1.2, kdnssd@5.39.0, kdoctools@5.39.0, kemoticons@5.39.0,
kfilemetadata@5.39.0, kglobalaccel@5.39.0, kguiaddons@5.39.0, khal@0.9.8,
ki18n@5.39.0, kicad-library@4.0.6, kicad@4.0-2.5f4599f, kiconthemes@5.39.0,
kidletime@5.39.0, kimageformats@5.39.0, kinit@5.39.0, kio@5.39.0,
kitemmodels@5.39.0, kitemviews@5.39.0, kjobwidgets@5.39.0,
knewstuff@5.39.0, knot@2.6.3, knotifications@5.39.0, knotifyconfig@5.39.0,
kodi@18.0_alpha-7-67fd70f, kpackage@5.39.0, kparts@5.39.0, kpeople@5.39.0,
kplotting@5.39.0, kpty@5.39.0, krunner@5.39.0, kservice@5.39.0,
ksyntaxhighlighting@5.39.0, ktexteditor@5.39.0, ktextwidgets@5.39.0,
kunitconversion@5.39.0, kwallet@5.39.0, kwayland@5.39.0,
kwidgetsaddons@5.39.0, kwindowsystem@5.39.0, kxmlgui@5.39.0,
kxmlrpcclient@5.39.0, lame@3.100, lapack@3.7.1, ldb@1.3.0, ldc@0.17.4,
ldc@1.1.1, leptonica@1.74.4, letsencrypt@0.19.0, lftp@4.8.3, libaacs@0.9.0,
libarchive@3.3.1, libass@0.14.0, libassuan@2.4.4, libbluray@1.0.1,
libcdr@0.1.4, libchamplain@0.12.16, libconfuse@3.2.1, libcroco@0.6.12,
libcss@0.7.0, libdom@0.3.2, libdrm@2.4.83, libdvdnav@5.0.3,
libetonyek@0.1.7, libevent@2.1.8, libextractor@1.6, libexttextcat@3.4.5,
libffcall@2.0, libfilezilla@0.11.1, libfreehand@0.1.2, libgcrypt@1.7.8,
libgee@0.20.0, libgit2@0.26.0, libgnome-games-support@1.2.3,
libgnomekbd@3.22.0.1, libgpg-error@1.27, libgtop@2.38.0,
libgweather@3.26.1, libidn2@2.0.2, libidn2@2.0.4, libinput-minimal@1.7.3,
libinput@1.7.3, libjaylink@0.1.0-2.699b700, libjpeg-turbo@1.5.2,
libksysguard@5.11.2, liblangtag@0.6.2, libmateweather@1.18.1,
libmicrohttpd@0.9.57, libmspack@0.6, libmwaw@0.3.12, libnftnl@1.0.8,
libnl@3.4.0, libnsgif@0.2.0, libnspsl@0.1.2, libntlm@1.4, libodfgen@0.1.6,
libpagemaker@0.0.3, libpeas@1.22.0, libpinyin@2.1.0, libpipeline@1.4.2,
libpng@1.2.59, libpng@1.6.29, libpsl@0.19.1, libpthread-stubs@0.4,
libpwquality@1.4.0, libraw@0.18.5, libreoffice@5.3.7.2, libressl@2.6.3,
librevenge@0.0.4, librsvg@2.40.18, libsigsegv@2.11, libsodium@1.0.15,
libsoup@2.60.2, libspectre@0.2.8, libssh@0.7.5, libstaroffice@0.0.5,
libstdc++-doc@5.4.0, libsvgtiny@0.1.6, libtasn1@4.12, libtiff@4.0.8,
libtorrent-rasterbar@1.1.5, libuninameslist@20170807, libunwind@1.2.1,
liburcu@0.10.0, libuv@1.14.1, libva@1.8.3, libvirt@3.7.0, libvisio@0.1.6,
libwacom@0.25, libwapcaplet@0.4.0, libwebp@0.6.1, libwnck@3.24.1,
libwpd@0.10.2, libwpg@0.3.2, libwps@0.4.7, libxcursor@1.1.15,
libxfont@2.0.3, libxres@1.2.0, libzmf@0.0.2, lightning@2.1.2,
lilypond@2.19.63, limnoria@2017.10.01, linux-libre-arm-generic@4.14.3,
linux-libre@4.14.3, linux-libre@4.4.103, linux-libre@4.9.66, lirc@0.10.1,
llvm@3.8.1, llvm@3.9.1, lmdb@0.9.21, lua@5.2.4, lua@5.3.4,
lvm2-static@2.02.176, lvm2@2.02.176, lynx@2.8.9dev.15, lz4@1.8.0,
lzip@1.18, magit@2.11.0, mailutils@3.4, maim@5.4.68, man-db@2.7.6.1,
man-pages@4.14, manaplus@1.7.6.10, mariadb@10.1.26, mate-desktop@1.18.0,
mate-icon-theme@1.18.2, mate-menus@1.18.0, mate-themes@3.22.13,
maxima@5.41.0, mbedtls-apache@2.6.0, mcelog@154, mercurial@4.4.1, mes@0.11,
mesa-headers@17.2.1, mesa@17.2.1, meson@0.43.0, metabat@2.12.1,
mg@20170401, minetest@0.4.16, miniupnpc@2.0.20171102, miso@0.5.4,
mit-krb5@1.15.1, mobile-broadband-provider-info@20170310,
modemmanager-qt@5.39.0, moe@1.9, moka-icon-theme@5.3.6, moreutils@0.61,
mosh@1.3.2, mozjs@24.2.0, mozjs@38.2.1.rc0, mpd@0.20.11, mpg123@1.25.7,
mpv@0.27.0, multiqc@1.3, munge@0.5.13, musl@1.1.18, mutt@1.9.1,
mutter@3.24.4, mysql@5.7.20, nano@2.9.1, nasm@2.13.01, nautilus@3.24.2.1,
ncmpcpp@0.8.1, neofetch@3.3.0, neomutt@20171027, net-tools@1.60-0.479bb4a,
netpbm@10.78.3, netsurf@3.7, network-manager-applet@1.8.4,
network-manager@1.8.4, networkmanager-qt@5.39.0, nginx@1.12.2, nim@0.17.0,
nmap@7.60, nnn@1.5, no-more-secrets@0.3.3, node@8.9.1,
notmuch-addrlookup-c@8-1.88f156d, notmuch@0.25.2, npth@1.5, nsgenbind@0.5,
nspr@4.17, nss-certs@3.34.1, nss-pam-ldapd@0.9.8, nss@3.34,
ntfs-3g@2017.3.23, nyacc@0.82.4, ocaml-findlib@1.7.3, ocaml@4.02.3,
offlineimap@7.1.4, ola@0.10.5, openh264@1.7.0, openjpeg@2.3.0,
openldap@2.4.45, openmpi@1.10.7, openntpd@6.2p3, openocd@0.10.0,
openssh@7.6p1, openssl@1.0.2l, openssl@1.0.2m, openssl@1.1.0g,
openttd@1.7.1, openvpn@2.4.4, opus-tools@0.1.10, opus@1.2.1, orc@0.4.28,
orca@3.26.0, orfm@0.7.1, osip@5.0.0, owncloud-client@2.3.4,
oxygen-icons@5.39.0, p11-kit@0.23.9, p4est-openmpi@2.0, p4est@2.0,
pango@1.40.12, par2cmdline@0.7.4, parallel@20171122, pari-gp@2.9.3,
pcb@4.0.2, pciutils@3.5.5, pcsc-lite@1.8.22, perf@4.14.3,
perl-anyevent-i3@0.17, perl-anyevent@7.14, perl-business-ismn@1.131,
perl-carp-clan@6.06, perl-catalyst-runtime@5.90115,
perl-class-inspector@1.31, perl-class-tiny@1.006, perl-config-any@0.32,
perl-context-preserve@0.02, perl-cpan-meta-check@0.014,
perl-crypt-openssl-bignum@0.08, perl-data-dumper-concise@2.023,
perl-datetime-event-ical@0.13, perl-datetime-event-recurrence@0.19,
perl-datetime-format-flexible@0.28, perl-datetime-format-natural@1.05,
perl-datetime-format-strptime@1.73, perl-datetime-format-w3cdtf@0.07,
perl-datetime-locale@1.16, perl-datetime-set@0.3900,
perl-datetime-timezone@2.13, perl-datetime@1.43, perl-dbd-mysql@4.043,
perl-devel-stacktrace-ashtml@0.15, perl-devel-stacktrace@2.03,
perl-devel-symdump@2.18, perl-email-mime-contenttype@1.022,
perl-email-mime@1.946, perl-email-sender@1.300031, perl-email-simple@2.214,
perl-extutils-pkgconfig@1.16, perl-file-find-rule-perl@1.15,
perl-file-path@2.13, perl-file-remove@1.57,
perl-file-sharedir-install@0.11, perl-file-sharedir@1.104,
perl-geo-ip@1.51, perl-getopt-long-descriptive@0.100, perl-html-lint@2.26,
perl-html-template@2.97, perl-html-tree@5.07, perl-http-cookies@6.04,
perl-image-exiftool@10.55, perl-json-any@1.39, perl-list-moreutils@0.426,
perl-log-log4perl@1.49, perl-mime-charset@1.012.2, perl-mime-types@2.14,
perl-modern-perl@1.20170117, perl-module-scandeps@1.24,
perl-moosex-types-datetime@0.13, perl-mro-compat@0.13, perl-net-dns@1.13,
perl-net-server@2.009, perl-net-ssleay@1.81, perl-parse-yapp@1.2,
perl-regexp-common@2017060201, perl-safe-isa@1.000008,
perl-sub-exporter-progressive@0.001013, perl-test-harness@3.39,
perl-test-leaktrace@0.16, perl-test-script@1.20,
perl-test-www-mechanize-psgi@0.37, perl-test-www-mechanize@1.48,
perl-text-table@1.133, perl-tie-cycle@1.225, perl-tk@804.034,
perl-unicode-utf8@0.62, perl-uri-find@20160806, perl-www-mechanize@1.86,
perl-xml-atom@0.42, perl-xml-libxml@2.0132, perl-xml-namespacesupport@1.12,
perl@5.26.0, petsc-complex-openmpi@3.8.0, petsc-complex@3.8.0,
petsc-openmpi@3.8.0, petsc@3.8.0, php@7.1.12, pkg-config@0.29.2,
plasma-framework@5.39.0, pngcrunch@1.8.13, poppler-qt4@0.59.0,
poppler-qt5@0.59.0, poppler@0.59.0, postgresql@10.1, postgresql@9.6.6,
potrace@1.15, powertabeditor@2.0.0-alpha10, powertop@2.9, presentproto@1.1,
proplib@0.0.0-2.4c46ecbe7, prosody@0.10.0, proteinortho@5.16b,
protobuf@3.5.0, pspp@1.0.1, pulseaudio@11.0, pv@1.6.6, pybitmessage@0.6.2,
python-acme@0.19.0, python-alembic@0.9.5, python-aniso8601@1.3.0,
python-arrow@0.10.0, python-astroid@1.5.3, python-autopep8@1.3.2,
python-biom-format@2.1.6, python-biopython@1.70, python-botocore@1.7.9,
python-cairocffi@0.8.0, python-cffi@1.11.2, python-chardet@3.0.4,
python-cleo@0.6.1, python-click-log@0.2.0, python-click-threading@0.4.3,
python-configargparse@0.12.0, python-cryptography-vectors@2.0.3,
python-cryptography@2.0.3, python-cython@0.27, python-decorator@4.1.2,
python-django@1.10.8, python-docutils@0.14, python-efl@1.20.0,
python-file@5.30, python-fonttools@3.15.1, python-future@0.16.0,
python-gst@1.12.3, python-h5py@2.7.0, python-hacking@0.13.0,
python-html5lib@1.0b10, python-hy@0.13.0, python-icalendar@4.0.0,
python-idna@2.5, python-ipython@5.3.0, python-jinja2@2.9.6,
python-libvirt@3.7.0, python-lxml@3.8.0, python-lz4@0.10.1,
python-matplotlib-documentation@2.0.2, python-matplotlib@2.0.2,
python-minimal@3.5.3, python-mock@2.0.0, python-mutagen@1.38,
python-nbformat@4.3.0, python-netaddr@0.7.19, python-netcdf4@1.2.9,
python-notmuch@0.25.2, python-numexpr@2.6.4, python-orator@0.9.7,
python-paramiko@2.1.2, python-parsedatetime@2.4, python-pbr@3.0.1,
python-peewee@2.10.2, python-pep8@1.7.0, python-plastid@0.4.8,
python-prompt-toolkit@1.0.15, python-protobuf@3.4.0,
python-psycopg2@2.7.3.1, python-pyaml@17.7.2, python-pyasn1@0.2.3,
python-pycodestyle@2.3.1, python-pyflakes@1.0.0, python-pygit2@0.26.0,
python-pygments@2.2.0, python-pygobject@3.24.1, python-pyicu@1.9.8,
python-pyjwt@1.5.3, python-pylast@2.0.0, python-pylint@1.7.2,
python-pyopenssl@17.3.0, python-pyparsing@2.2.0, python-pyqt@5.9,
python-pysam@0.11.2.2, python-pytz@2017.3, python-pyxb@1.2.6,
python-requests-toolbelt@0.8.0, python-requests@2.13.0, python-rpy2@2.9.0,
python-s3transfer@0.1.11, python-scikit-learn@0.19.1, python-scipy@0.19.1,
python-sge-pygame@1.5.1, python-sip@4.19.3, python-sphinx-rtd-theme@0.2.4,
python-sphinx@1.6.3, python-sqlparse@0.2.4, python-sympy@1.1.1,
python-tmx@1.10, python-tox@2.8.1, python-twisted@17.1.0,
python-unidecode@0.04.21, python-vobject@0.9.5, python-xcffib@0.5.1,
python2-alembic@0.9.5, python2-arrow@0.10.0, python2-astroid@1.5.3,
python2-autopep8@1.3.2, python2-biom-format@2.1.6, python2-biopython@1.70,
python2-botocore@1.7.9, python2-bx-python@0.7.3, python2-cairocffi@0.8.0,
python2-cffi@1.11.2, python2-chardet@3.0.4, python2-cleo@0.6.1,
python2-cliapp@1.20170823, python2-configargparse@0.12.0,
python2-cryptography-vectors@2.0.3, python2-cryptography@2.0.3,
python2-cython@0.27, python2-decorator@4.1.2, python2-django@1.10.8,
python2-docutils@0.14, python2-efl@1.20.0, python2-file@5.30,
python2-flake8@2.5.4, python2-fonttools@3.15.1, python2-future@0.16.0,
python2-gst@1.12.3, python2-h5py@2.7.0, python2-hacking@0.13.0,
python2-html5lib@1.0b10, python2-hy@0.13.0, python2-idna@2.5,
python2-ipython@5.3.0, python2-jinja2@2.9.6, python2-libvirt@3.7.0,
python2-lxml@3.8.0, python2-lz4@0.10.1,
python2-matplotlib-documentation@2.0.2, python2-matplotlib@2.0.2,
python2-mutagen@1.38, python2-nbformat@4.3.0, python2-netaddr@0.7.19,
python2-netcdf4@1.2.9, python2-notmuch@0.25.2, python2-numexpr@2.6.4,
python2-orator@0.9.7, python2-paramiko@2.1.2, python2-parsedatetime@2.4,
python2-pbr@3.0.1, python2-peewee@2.10.2, python2-pep8@1.7.0,
python2-plastid@0.4.8, python2-prompt-toolkit@1.0.15,
python2-protobuf@3.4.0, python2-psycopg2@2.7.3.1, python2-pyaml@17.7.2,
python2-pyasn1@0.2.3, python2-pycodestyle@2.3.1, python2-pygit2@0.26.0,
python2-pygments@2.2.0, python2-pygobject@3.24.1, python2-pyicu@1.9.8,
python2-pyjwt@1.5.3, python2-pylast@2.0.0, python2-pylint@1.7.2,
python2-pyopenssl@17.3.0, python2-pyparsing@2.2.0, python2-pyqt@5.9,
python2-pysam@0.11.2.2, python2-pytest@3.0.7, python2-pytz@2017.3,
python2-pyxb@1.2.6, python2-rpython@0.2.1, python2-s3transfer@0.1.11,
python2-scikit-learn@0.19.1, python2-scipy@0.19.1,
python2-sge-pygame@1.5.1, python2-sip@4.19.3,
python2-sphinx-rtd-theme@0.2.4, python2-sqlparse@0.2.4,
python2-sympy@1.1.1, python2-tmx@1.10, python2-tox@2.8.1,
python2-ttystatus@0.35, python2-twisted@17.1.0, python2-unidecode@0.04.21,
python2-unittest2@1.1.0, python2-vobject@0.9.5, python2-xcffib@0.5.1,
python@3.5.3, pzstd@1.3.2, qemu-minimal@2.10.1, qemu@2.10.1,
qsyncthingtray@0.5.8, qt@5.9.3, qtbase@5.9.3, qtcanvas3d@5.9.3,
qtcharts@5.9.3, qtconnectivity@5.9.3, qtdatavis3d@5.9.3,
qtdeclarative@5.9.3, qtgamepad@5.9.3, qtgraphicaleffects@5.9.3,
qtimageformats@5.9.3, qtlocation@5.9.3, qtmultimedia@5.9.3, qtox@1.13.0,
qtpurchasing@5.9.3, qtquickcontrols2@5.9.3, qtquickcontrols@5.9.3,
qtractor@0.8.4, qtscript@5.9.3, qtscxml@5.9.3, qtsensors@5.9.3,
qtserialbus@5.9.3, qtserialport@5.9.3, qtsvg@5.9.3, qttools@5.9.3,
qtwayland@5.9.3, qtwebchannel@5.9.3, qtwebkit@5.9.1, qtwebsockets@5.9.3,
qtx11extras@5.9.3, qtxmlpatterns@5.9.3, qutebrowser@0.11.0, r-ade4@1.7-8,
r-affy@1.56.0, r-affyio@1.48.0, r-annotate@1.56.1, r-annotationdbi@1.40.0,
r-annotationforge@1.20.0, r-ape@5.0, r-backports@1.1.1,
r-bamsignals@1.10.0, r-batchjobs@1.7, r-bh@1.65.0-1, r-bigmemory@4.5.31,
r-biobase@2.38.0, r-bioccheck@1.14.0, r-biocgenerics@0.24.0,
r-biocinstaller@1.28.0, r-biocparallel@1.12.0, r-biocstyle@2.6.0,
r-biocviews@1.46.0, r-biomart@2.34.0, r-biostrings@2.46.0, r-bit64@0.9-7,
r-bookdown@0.5, r-boot@1.3-20, r-bsgenome@1.46.0, r-car@2.1-6,
r-caret@6.0-77, r-category@2.44.0, r-checkmate@1.8.5, r-chipseq@1.28.0,
r-chron@2.3-51, r-commonmark@1.4, r-copywriter@2.10.0, r-cowplot@0.9.1,
r-crayon@1.3.4, r-curl@3.0, r-data-table@1.10.4-3, r-dbi@0.7,
r-delayedarray@0.4.1, r-desc@1.1.1, r-deseq2@1.18.1, r-devtools@1.13.4,
r-dnacopy@1.52.0, r-doparallel@1.0.11, r-dplyr@0.7.4, r-edger@3.20.1,
r-evaluate@0.10.1, r-fastcluster@1.1.24, r-fastica@1.2-1, r-flexmix@2.3-14,
r-foreign@0.8-69, r-formatr@1.5, r-formula@1.2-2, r-gdata@2.18.0,
r-gdtools@0.1.6, r-genefilter@1.60.0, r-geneplotter@1.56.0,
r-genomation@1.10.0, r-genomationdata@1.10.0, r-genomeinfodb@1.14.0,
r-genomeinfodbdata@0.99.1, r-genomicalignments@1.14.1,
r-genomicfeatures@1.30.0, r-genomicranges@1.30.0, r-getopt@1.20.1,
r-ggbeeswarm@0.6.0, r-git2r@0.19.0, r-glmnet@2.0-13, r-go-db@3.5.0,
r-googlesheets@0.2.2, r-gostats@2.44.0, r-graph@1.56.0, r-gridextra@2.3,
r-grohmm@1.12.0, r-gseabase@1.40.1, r-hmisc@4.0-3, r-hms@0.4.0,
r-htmltools@0.3.6, r-htmlwidgets@0.9, r-httpuv@1.3.5, r-httr@1.3.1,
r-igraph@1.1.2, r-impute@1.52.0, r-iranges@2.12.0, r-irlba@2.3.1,
r-jsonlite@1.5, r-knitr@1.17, r-knitrbootstrap@1.0.1, r-lambda-r@1.2,
r-lazyeval@0.2.1, r-limma@3.34.2, r-lme4@1.1-14, r-maldiquant@1.17,
r-matrix@1.2-12, r-mclust@5.4, r-mgcv@1.8-22, r-minimal@3.4.3,
r-motifrg@1.22.0, r-msnbase@2.4.0, r-msnid@1.12.1, r-multitaper@1.0-14,
r-mutationalpatterns@1.4.1, r-mzid@1.16.0, r-mzr@2.12.0, r-openssl@0.9.9,
r-optparse@1.4.4, r-org-ce-eg-db@3.5.0, r-org-dm-eg-db@3.5.0,
r-org-hs-eg-db@3.5.0, r-org-mm-eg-db@3.5.0, r-pbapply@1.3-3,
r-pcamethods@1.70.0, r-plotly@4.7.1, r-plotrix@3.6-6, r-pracma@2.1.1,
r-preprocesscore@1.40.0, r-protgenerics@1.10.0, r-pryr@0.1.3,
r-purrr@0.2.4, r-qtl@1.41-6, r-quantreg@5.34, r-r-utils@2.6.0, r-r6@2.2.2,
r-ranger@0.8.0, r-rann@2.5.1, r-rbgl@1.54.0, r-rcas@1.3.4, r-rcpp@0.12.14,
r-rcpparmadillo@0.8.100.1.0, r-rcppeigen@0.3.3.3.1, r-rcppprogress@0.4,
r-readr@1.1.1, r-rhdf5@2.22.0, r-rhtslib@1.10.0, r-rmarkdown@1.8,
r-robustbase@0.92-8, r-rsamtools@1.30.0, r-rsqlite@2.0, r-rstudioapi@0.7,
r-rtracklayer@1.38.0, r-s4vectors@0.16.0, r-scales@0.5.0,
r-segmented@0.5-2.2, r-seqinr@3.4-5, r-seqlogo@1.44.0, r-seqminer@6.0,
r-seqpattern@1.10.0, r-servr@0.8, r-sfsmisc@1.1-1, r-shortread@1.36.0,
r-sn@1.5-1, r-spams@2.6-2017-03-22, r-sparsem@1.77, r-statmod@1.4.30,
r-stringi@1.1.6, r-summarizedexperiment@1.8.0, r-sva@3.26.0,
r-svglite@1.2.1, r-systempiper@1.12.0, r-tclust@1.3-1, r-tibble@1.3.4,
r-tidyr@0.7.2, r-topgo@2.30.0, r-tximport@1.6.0,
r-variantannotation@1.24.2, r-vegan@2.4-4, r-vgam@1.0-4, r-vsn@3.46.0,
r-wgcna@1.61, r-withr@2.1.0, r-xml@3.98-1.9, r-xvector@0.18.0,
r-zlibbioc@1.24.0, r@3.4.3, rapidjson@1.1.0, raul@0.8.9-1.4db870b2b,
rcas-web@0.0.4, rdma-core@14, re2@2017-11-01, readline@7.0,
red-eclipse@1.5.8-2, redis@4.0.2, rest@0.8.1, retroarch@1.6.9,
rhythmbox@3.4.2, roary@3.11.0, rofi@1.4.2, rpm@4.13.0.2,
ruby-activesupport@5.1.4, ruby-arel@8.0.0, ruby-bio-commandeer@0.4.0,
ruby-builder@3.2.3, ruby-byebug@9.0.6, ruby-coderay@1.1.2,
ruby-concurrent@1.0.5, ruby-connection-pool@2.2.1,
ruby-cucumber-core@2.0.0, ruby-daemons@1.2.4, ruby-debug-inspector@0.0.3,
ruby-diff-lcs@1.3, ruby-domain-name@0.5.20170404, ruby-eventmachine@1.2.5,
ruby-ffi@1.9.18, ruby-fivemat@1.3.5, ruby-gem-hadar@1.9.1,
ruby-gherkin@4.1.3, ruby-git@1.3.0, ruby-introspection@0.0.4,
ruby-json-pure@2.1.0, ruby-json@2.1.0, ruby-libxml@3.0.0,
ruby-listen@3.1.5, ruby-lumberjack@1.0.12, ruby-mail@2.6.6,
ruby-method-source@0.9.0, ruby-mini-portile@2.2.0,
ruby-minitest-bacon@1.0.3, ruby-minitest-bonus-assertions@3.0,
ruby-minitest-hooks@1.4.1, ruby-minitest@5.10.3, ruby-nenv@0.3.0,
ruby-net-http-digest-auth@1.4.1, ruby-net-http-persistent@3.0.0,
ruby-net-ssh@4.1.0, ruby-nokogiri-diff@0.2.0-1.a38491e4,
ruby-nokogiri@1.8.0, ruby-notiffany@0.1.1, ruby-ox@2.6.0,
ruby-packnga@1.0.4, ruby-pg@0.21.0, ruby-pkg-config@1.2.5, ruby-pry@0.11.1,
ruby-puma@3.9.1, ruby-rack@2.0.3, ruby-rake-compiler@1.0.4,
ruby-rb-fsevent@0.10.2, ruby-rb-inotify@0.9.10, ruby-redcarpet@3.4.0,
ruby-redcloth@4.3.2, ruby-rjb@1.5.5, ruby-rspec-core@3.5.4,
ruby-rspec@3.5.0, ruby-sequel@4.49.0, ruby-shoulda-matchers@3.1.2,
ruby-simplecov-html@0.10.1, ruby-slop@4.5.0, ruby-tdiff@0.3.3-1.b662a604,
ruby-term-ansicolor@1.6.0, ruby-test-unit@3.2.5, ruby-thor@0.19.4,
ruby-thread-safe@0.3.6, ruby-timecop@0.9.1, ruby-tins@1.15.0,
ruby-tzinfo@1.2.3, ruby-useragent@0.16.8, ruby-utils@0.9.0, ruby@2.2.8,
ruby@2.3.5, ruby@2.4.2, samba@4.7.3, samplv1@0.8.5, samtools@1.5,
sane-backends-minimal@1.0.27, sane-backends@1.0.27, sassc@3.4.5,
schismtracker@20170910, scons@3.0.1, screen@4.6.2, scribus@1.5.3,
sddm@0.16.0, sdl2@2.0.7, sdparm@1.10, shadow@4.5, shellcheck@0.4.6,
shotwell@0.27.1, signify@23, signing-party@2.6,
slepc-complex-openmpi@3.8.0, slepc-complex@3.8.0, slepc-openmpi@3.8.0,
slepc@3.8.0, slop@7.3.49, slurm@16.05.11, smartmontools@6.6,
snakemake@4.2.0, solid@5.39.0, sonnet@5.39.0, speedtest-cli@1.0.7,
spice-protocol@0.12.13, spin2cpp@3.6.3, sqlite@3.19.3, sshfs-fuse@2.10,
sshoot@1.2.6, sshuttle@0.78.3, sssd@1.16.0, stellarium@0.16.0, strace@4.20,
subread@1.6.0, subversion@1.8.19, sudo@1.8.21p2, suil@0.10.0,
suitesparse@4.5.5, supertuxkart@0.9.3, swig@3.0.12, synfig@1.2.0,
synfigstudio@1.2.0, synthv1@0.8.5, taglib@1.11.1, tailon@1.3.0,
talloc-static@2.1.10, talloc@2.1.10, taxtastic@0.6.4, tcpdump@4.9.2,
tdb@1.3.15, teckit@2.5.7, terminology@1.1.1, tevent@0.9.34, texinfo@6.3,
texinfo@6.5, texlive@2017, the-silver-searcher@2.0.0, thefuck@3.19,
threadweaver@5.39.0, tidy-html@5.6.0, tig@2.3.0, tiled@1.0.3, time@1.8,
tint2@0.14.6, tlp@1.0, tmux@2.6, tomb@2.4, tor@0.3.1.9,
totem-pl-parser@3.10.8, totem@3.26.0, tracker@1.12.3,
tremc@0.9.0-1.9755b50, tzdata@2017b, u-boot-am335x_boneblack@2017.11,
u-boot-malta@2017.11, u-boot-vexpress_ca9x4@2017.11, units@2.16,
util-linux@2.30.1, util-macros@1.19.1, utox@0.16.1, v4l-utils@1.12.5,
vala@0.36.3, vdirsyncer@0.16.3, vifm@0.9, vigra@1.11.1, vim-full@8.0.1300,
vim@8.0.1300, virt-manager@1.4.3, virt-viewer@5.0, vlc@2.2.8,
vsearch@2.6.0, vte-ng@0.50.2.a, vte@0.50.2, wayland-protocols@1.9,
wcslib@5.17, webkitgtk@2.18.3, weechat@2.0, weston@3.0.0, wget@1.19.2,
whois@5.2.18, wimlib@1.12.0, wireshark@2.4.3, wxmaxima@17.05.1,
wxwidgets-gtk2@3.0.3, x265@2.4, xclip@0.13, xf86-input-libinput@0.26.0,
xf86-input-wacom@0.34.2, xf86-video-ati@7.10.0,
xf86-video-intel@2.99.917-8-c899057, xf86-video-openchrome@0.6.0,
xkbcomp@1.4.0, xkeyboard-config@2.21, xmonad@0.13, xonsh@0.5.12,
xorg-server-xwayland@1.19.5, xorg-server@1.19.5, xorriso@1.4.8,
xscreensaver@5.37, xterm@330, yadifa@2.2.6, yoshimi@1.5.3, you-get@0.4.995,
youtube-dl@2017.12.02, zenity@3.24.0, zerofree@1.1.0,
zile-on-guile@2.4.14-0.fd09781, zile@2.4.14, zsh@5.4.2, zstd@1.3.2,
zynaddsubfx@3.0.2

** Programming interfaces

*** New build systems: ‘font’, ‘meson’, ‘minify’, ‘scons’, ‘texlive’
*** ‘cmake-build-system’ now supports cross-compilation
*** Various improvements to ‘asdf-build-system’, ‘emacs-build-system’,
    ‘ant-build-system’, and ‘go-build-system’
*** ‘patches’ field of <origin> can now contain any lowerable object
*** (gnu system vm) has a new ‘make-iso9660-image’ procedure
*** ‘openssh-service-type’ can now be extended with new authorized keys
*** ‘rottlog-service-type’ can now be extended with new ‘log-rotation’s
*** ‘network-manager-service-type’ now supports VPN plugins
*** <service-type> now has a ‘description’ field, used by ‘guix system search’
*** New ‘virtual-machine’ form in (gnu system vm)
*** New (gnu system uuid) module, which defines a disjoint <uuid> type
*** New (guix progress) module

** Noteworthy bug fixes

*** GuixSD no longer creates setuid binaries in /gnu/store
    (<https://bugs.gnu.org/28751>)
*** /root is no longer world-readable (<http://bugs.gnu.org/27135>)
*** ‘guix publish’ no longer leaks memory (<https://bugs.gnu.org/28784>)
*** Missing cursor icons in GNOME could cause crashes
    (<https://bugs.gnu.org/25958>)
*** Setuid programs now honor the system timezone
    (<https://bugs.gnu.org/29212>)
*** Clients honor the daemon’s ‘max-silent-time’
    (<https://bugs.gnu.org/27157>)
*** ‘guix substitute’ honors substitute expiry time again
    (<https://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/guix-devel/2017-07/msg00179.html>)
*** Several portability fixes for aarch64

** Native language support

Updated translations: da (Danish), fr (French)

* Changes in 0.13.0 (since 0.12.0)

** Package management

*** Guix can now be used on aarch64 GNU/Linux systems
*** New ‘guix pack’ command to create bundles
*** New ‘guix copy’ command to copy store items over SSH
*** New ‘--cache’ option for ‘guix publish’
*** $GUIX_DAEMON_SOCKET can specify remote daemons
*** Guix can now run on Guile 2.2, providing better performance
*** Emacs interface moved to separate Emacs-Guix package
*** New ‘--root’ option for ‘guix environment’
*** ‘guix pull’ now connects to git.savannah.gnu.org over HTTPS
*** New cross-compilation targets: aarch64-linux-gnu, powerpc-linux-gnu
*** Packages can specify “single-entry search paths” (e.g., ‘GIT_EXEC_PATH’)
*** ‘guix import’ and ‘guix refresh’ now support Stackage
*** Support for the deprecated “PKG-VERSION” syntax has been removed
*** New Cypher backend for ‘guix graph’
*** GnuTLS (Guile bindings) is now required
*** Guix now issues a warning when it detects that Guix has not been upgraded in a while

** Distribution

*** The GuixSD installation image supports (U)EFI systems
*** GuixSD supports Btrfs (<http://bugs.gnu.org/19280>)
*** Some system services are now run in separate namespaces (“containers”)
*** The LXDE desktop environment is now available
*** ‘grub-configuration’ can specify settings for the user interface
*** Service types can now specify a default value for services
*** Create the /var/log/wtmp and /var/log/utmpx databases
*** A raw initial RAM disk can be created to support systems with custom kernel configurations
*** ‘static-networking’ service can now be extended
*** Configuration of ‘nginx-service-type’ has been greatly improved
*** New ‘gnu-build-system’ phase to always reset gzip timestamps
*** New services

exim, mail-aliases, inetd, agetty, openvswitch, special-files, redis,
thermald

*** 840 new packages

0ad, 0ad-data, adb, alpine, alsa-plugins, angband, antlr2, antlr3,
appstream-glib, aris, aspell-dict-pt-br, asunder, balsa, bam, beep,
binutils-vc4, blind, blists, btrfs-progs-static, camlzip, cargo, catdoc,
catimg, ccd2cue, cdogs-sdl, cdrtools, ceph, checkpolicy, cifs-utils, cmst,
colors, compface, compton, cool-retro-term, corrode, crawl, darcs,
darktable, dcmtk, deutex, ding-libs, dotherside, dovecot-libsodium-plugin,
dovecot-trees, dub, dvd+rw-tools, dvdauthor, dvdstyler, dzen, e3, electrum,
emacs-adaptive-wrap, emacs-ag, emacs-aggressive-indent, emacs-alert,
emacs-ansi, emacs-calfw, emacs-cdlatex, emacs-commander,
emacs-default-encrypt, emacs-diminish, emacs-dream-theme,
emacs-evil-commentary, emacs-evil-surround, emacs-exwm, emacs-git-gutter,
emacs-git-timemachine, emacs-gntp, emacs-gnuplot, emacs-google-maps,
emacs-highlight-sexp, emacs-ht, emacs-htmlize, emacs-idle-highlight,
emacs-key-chord, emacs-keyfreq, emacs-linum-relative, emacs-log4e,
emacs-memoize, emacs-mew, emacs-monroe, emacs-mu4e-alert, emacs-ox-twbs,
emacs-pretty-mode, emacs-strace-mode, emacs-stripe-buffer, emacs-sx,
emacs-symon, emacs-transpose-frame, emacs-use-package, emacs-xelb,
emacs-xmlgen, emacs-yasnippet, emacspeak, enigma, ert-runner, es,
eudev-with-hwdb, f3, fabric, fcitx-configtool, filezilla, fillets-ng,
fish-guix, fmt, font-awesome, font-cns11643, font-cns11643-swjz,
font-comic-neue, font-go, font-google-material-design-icons,
font-google-roboto, font-iosevka, font-linuxlibertine, font-tamzen,
font-wqy-microhei, fortify-headers, fprintd, freeciv, freedoom, freegish,
freerdp, freetalk, freexl, gcc-vc4, gcompris-qt, geos, ghc-code-page,
ghc-hslogger, ghc-json, ghc-language-c, ghc-markdown-unlit, ghc-setlocale,
ghc-unexceptionalio, ghc-wave, git-crypt, gl2ps, gnome-autoar,
gnome-disk-utility, gnumach, gnushogi, gnustep-make, gpicview, grafx2,
graphene, guildhall, guile-8sync, guile-bash, guile-fibers, guile-git,
guile-ics, guile-miniadapton, guile-sdl2, guile-sjson,
guile-syntax-highlight, guile2.0-commonmark, guile2.0-haunt, guile2.0-json,
guile2.0-reader, guile2.0-ssh, guile2.2-gdbm-ffi, guile2.2-gnutls,
guile2.2-haunt, guile2.2-lib, guile2.2-reader, guile2.2-ssh, heimdal,
hiawatha, hisat2, http-parser, httpfs2, httpstat, hubbub, human, hurd,
hyperestraier, idris-bifunctors, idris-lens, idris-lightyear,
idris-wl-pprint, intel-gpu-tools, itpp, jacal, java-asm, java-cglib,
java-commons-cli, java-commons-codec, java-commons-collections4,
java-commons-compress, java-commons-daemon, java-commons-io,
java-commons-lang, java-commons-lang3, java-commons-logging-minimal,
java-commons-math3, java-commons-net, java-easymock, java-eclipse-ant-core,
java-eclipse-compare-core, java-eclipse-core-commands,
java-eclipse-core-contenttype, java-eclipse-core-expressions,
java-eclipse-core-filesystem, java-eclipse-core-jobs,
java-eclipse-core-resources, java-eclipse-core-runtime,
java-eclipse-core-variables, java-eclipse-equinox-app,
java-eclipse-equinox-common, java-eclipse-equinox-preferences,
java-eclipse-equinox-registry, java-eclipse-jdt-core, java-eclipse-osgi,
java-eclipse-team-core, java-eclipse-text, java-guava, java-hamcrest-all,
java-httpcomponents-httpclient, java-httpcomponents-httpcore,
java-httpcomponents-httpcore-ab, java-httpcomponents-httpcore-nio,
java-httpcomponents-httpmime, java-icu4j, java-javax-mail, java-jmh,
java-jmock, java-jopt-simple, java-jsch, java-jsr305, java-log4j-api,
java-mockito, java-objenesis, java-osgi-annotation, java-osgi-core,
java-osgi-service-event, java-plexus-interpolation, java-plexus-utils,
java-rsyntaxtextarea, java-simple-xml, java-usb4java, joe, kakoune,
keybinder, kiki, knot, lchat, le-certs, leafpad, lensfun, leveldb, libbson,
libcss, libdom, libfilezilla, libfprint, libgig, libgme,
libgnome-games-support, libircclient, libmesode, libmnl, libmp4v2,
libmpack, libnftnl, libnsbmp, libnsgif, libnspsl, libnsutils,
libparserutils, libpng-apng, libselinux, libsemanage, libsepol, libsmf,
libstaroffice, libstrophe, libsvgtiny, libtorrent-rasterbar, liburcu,
libusb4java, libutf, libvterm, libwapcaplet, libxls, libzmf, lierolibre,
light, lightdm, lightdm-gtk-greeter, linsmith, linuxdcpp,
llvm-for-extempore, lmms, loudmouth, lshw, lsyncd, lua-libmpack,
lua5.2-bitop, lua5.2-libmpack, lua5.2-lpeg, lugaru, luminance-hdr, lush2,
lxde, lxde-common, lxde-icon-theme, lxinput, lxmenu-data, lxpanel,
lxsession, maxflow, mbedtls-apache, mcabber, mcomix, mdbtools, megaglest,
megaglest-data, menumaker, mes, meson, mia, minizip, mlmmj,
multipath-tools, neofetch, neomutt, neovim, neovim-syntastic,
netcdf-fortran, niftilib, nim, nnn, no-more-secrets, noice, non-mixer,
non-timeline, nsgenbind, nss-pam-ldapd, nyacc, nyx, obconf, obnam,
ocaml-alcotest, ocaml-astring, ocaml-base64, ocaml-batteries,
ocaml-bin-prot, ocaml-bisect, ocaml-bitstring, ocaml-bos, ocaml-cmdliner,
ocaml-cppo, ocaml-csv, ocaml-expect, ocaml-fieldslib, ocaml-fileutils,
ocaml-fmt, ocaml-fpath, ocaml-frontc, ocaml-gsl, ocaml-js-build-tools,
ocaml-jsonm, ocaml-logs, ocaml-lwt, ocaml-mcl, ocaml-mtime, ocaml-oasis,
ocaml-ocurl, ocaml-ounit, ocaml-pcre, ocaml-ppx-assert, ocaml-ppx-bench,
ocaml-ppx-compare, ocaml-ppx-core, ocaml-ppx-deriving, ocaml-ppx-driver,
ocaml-ppx-enumerate, ocaml-ppx-here, ocaml-ppx-inline-test, ocaml-ppx-let,
ocaml-ppx-optcomp, ocaml-ppx-sexp-conv, ocaml-ppx-tools,
ocaml-ppx-type-conv, ocaml-ppx-typerep-conv, ocaml-ppx-variants-conv,
ocaml-qcheck, ocaml-qtest, ocaml-react, ocaml-result, ocaml-rresult,
ocaml-sexplib, ocaml-sqlite3, ocaml-ssl, ocaml-stringext, ocaml-topkg,
ocaml-typerep, ocaml-uchar, ocaml-ulex, ocaml-uutf, ocaml-variantslib,
ocaml-xmlm, ocaml-zarith, ocaml4.01-batteries, ocaml4.01-bisect,
ocaml4.01-camlzip, ocaml4.01-csv, ocaml4.01-findlib, ocaml4.01-gsl,
ocaml4.01-mcl, ocaml4.01-ounit, ocaml4.01-qtest, ocaml4.01-sqlite3,
ocaml4.01-xmlm, ocamlify, ocamlmod, omake, opencascade-oce, openspin,
openvswitch, orca, ovmf, pcc, pdfgrep, perl-any-moose, perl-anyevent,
perl-anyevent-i3, perl-async-interrupt, perl-canary-stability,
perl-cddb-get, perl-crypt-rc4, perl-cwd-guard, perl-devel-checkcompiler,
perl-ev, perl-extutils-depends, perl-extutils-pkgconfig, perl-file-pushd,
perl-module-build-xsutil, perl-mouse, perl-mousex-nativetraits,
perl-ole-storage-lite, perl-parallel-forkmanager, perl-switch,
perl-test-needs, perl-test-number-delta, perl-x11-xcb, perl-xml-descent,
perl-xml-tokeparser, perl-xs-object-magic, phonon-backend-gstreamer,
pngcrunch, policycoreutils, polkit-gnome, ponymix, pootle, postorius,
pplacer, prboom-plus, profanity, proj.4, proot, proot-static,
propeller-development-suite, propeller-gcc, propeller-load,
propeller-toolchain, proplib, prout, python-astroid, python-autopep8,
python-colorspacious, python-configparser, python-cram, python-cssmin,
python-cssutils, python-cycler, python-ddt, python-defusedxml,
python-diff-match-patch, python-dirsync, python-dj-database-url,
python-django-allauth, python-django-appconf, python-django-assets,
python-django-bulk-update, python-django-contact-form,
python-django-contrib-comments, python-django-gravatar2,
python-django-jsonfield, python-django-mailman3, python-django-overextends,
python-django-redis, python-django-rq, python-django-sortedm2m,
python-django-statici18n, python-dulwich, python-elasticsearch,
python-eventlet, python-factory-boy, python-faker, python-fakeredis,
python-fastimport, python-flake8-polyfill, python-flask-htmlmin,
python-flask-login, python-flask-multistatic, python-flask-oidc,
python-flask-wtf, python-fudge, python-geventhttpclient, python-gpg,
python-hdf4, python-hiredis, python-htmlmin, python-httpbin, python-ipy,
python-isort, python-kitchen, python-levenshtein, python-lz4, python-lzo,
python-mando, python-mando, python-matplotlib-documentation, python-mpmath,
python-munch, python-mwclient, python-mysqlclient, python-netcdf4,
python-nosexcover, python-numpy-documentation, python-oauth2client,
python-openid, python-openid-cla, python-openid-teams,
python-paramunittest, python-pbkdf2, python-poppler-qt5, python-pyatspi,
python-pycosat, python-pygit2, python-pykka, python-pylint,
python-pyodbc-c, python-pypeg2, python-pytest-catchlog,
python-pytest-httpbin, python-pytest-warnings, python-qrcode, python-reno,
python-rst2ansi, python-scandir, python-sepolgen, python-setools,
python-sge-pygame, python-snowballstemmer, python-sockjs-tornado,
python-sphinx-alabaster-theme, python-sphinx-cloud-sptheme,
python-sphinx-me, python-straight-plugin, python-tmx,
python-translate-toolkit, python-trollius-redis, python-utils,
python-webassets, python-xdo, python2-astroid, python2-autopep8,
python2-backports-functools-lru-cache,
python2-backports-shutil-get-terminal-size, python2-cheetah,
python2-cliapp, python2-colorspacious, python2-configparser,
python2-coverage-test-runner, python2-cram, python2-cssmin, python2-cycler,
python2-ddt, python2-defusedxml, python2-diff-match-patch, python2-dirsync,
python2-dj-database-url, python2-django-allauth, python2-django-appconf,
python2-django-assets, python2-django-bulk-update,
python2-django-contact-form, python2-django-contrib-comments,
python2-django-gravatar2, python2-django-jsonfield,
python2-django-mailman3, python2-django-overextends, python2-django-redis,
python2-django-rq, python2-django-sortedm2m, python2-django-statici18n,
python2-dulwich, python2-elasticsearch, python2-eventlet,
python2-factory-boy, python2-faker, python2-fakeredis, python2-fastimport,
python2-flake8-polyfill, python2-flask-htmlmin, python2-flask-login,
python2-flask-multistatic, python2-flask-wtf, python2-fudge,
python2-geventhttpclient, python2-gpg, python2-hdf4, python2-hiredis,
python2-htmlmin, python2-httpbin, python2-isort, python2-kitchen,
python2-larch, python2-levenshtein, python2-lz4, python2-lzo,
python2-mando, python2-matplotlib-documentation, python2-mpmath,
python2-munch, python2-mwclient, python2-mysqlclient, python2-netcdf4,
python2-nosexcover, python2-numpy-documentation, python2-openid,
python2-openid-cla, python2-openid-teams, python2-paramunittest,
python2-pbkdf2, python2-pycosat, python2-pygame, python2-pygit2,
python2-pykka, python2-pylint, python2-pyodbc-c, python2-pytest-catchlog,
python2-pytest-httpbin, python2-pytest-warnings, python2-qrcode,
python2-reno, python2-ruamel.ordereddict, python2-scandir,
python2-sge-pygame, python2-slowaes, python2-snowballstemmer,
python2-sockjs-tornado, python2-sphinx-alabaster-theme,
python2-sphinx-cloud-sptheme, python2-sphinx-me, python2-stemming,
python2-straight-plugin, python2-subprocess32, python2-tmx,
python2-tracing, python2-translate-toolkit, python2-trollius-redis,
python2-ttystatus, python2-utils, pzstd, qdbm, qjackctl, qtcanvas3d,
qtcharts, qtdatavis3d, qtdeclarative-render2d, qtgamepad, qtpurchasing,
qtscxml, qtserialbus, qutebrowser, r-affy, r-affyio, r-ape, r-base64,
r-beeswarm, r-bookdown, r-boot, r-bsgenome-hsapiens-1000genomes-hs37d5,
r-cairo, r-car, r-caret, r-centipede, r-chipseq, r-class, r-commonmark,
r-compquadform, r-copyhelper, r-copywriter, r-cowplot, r-delayedarray,
r-deoptimr, r-desc, r-diptest, r-fastica, r-fivethirtyeight, r-flexmix,
r-fnn, r-fpc, r-genomeinfodbdata, r-ggbeeswarm, r-ggthemes, r-lars, r-lme4,
r-maldiquant, r-mass, r-matrixmodels, r-mclust, r-minimal, r-minqa,
r-mixtools, r-mnormt, r-modelmetrics, r-modeltools, r-msnbase, r-msnid,
r-mzid, r-mzr, r-nlme, r-nloptr, r-numderiv, r-pbapply, r-pbkrtest,
r-pcamethods, r-plogr, r-prabclus, r-protgenerics, r-quantreg,
r-randomforest, r-ranger, r-rann, r-raremetals2, r-rcppeigen,
r-rcppprogress, r-rhdf5, r-robustbase, r-rprojroot, r-seqminer, r-seurat,
r-sn, r-sourcetools, r-spatial, r-statmod, r-sva, r-tclust, r-trimcluster,
r-tsne, r-txdb-mmusculus-ucsc-mm10-knowngene, r-tximport, r-vgam, r-vipor,
r-vsn, rdma-core, re2c, reducelcs, ribodiff, ripit, rocksdb, roffit,
rsnapshot, ruby-mail, sambamba, sbm, scheme48-rx, scm, scrypt, scsh,
seabios, secilc, sedsed, shellcheck, simh, skroll, slib, sonic,
speedtest-cli, speexdsp, spin2cpp, spinsim, spoon, sssd, stringtemplate3,
stringtemplate4, stunnel, swaks, syslinux, sysstat, tailon, talloc-static,
tango-icon-theme, taxtastic, tclx, teeworlds, tftp-hpa, thermald,
tidy-html, tipp10, tlp, tokyocabinet, tracker, tremc, twm, unibilium,
unrar, vim-airline, vim-airline-themes, vim-context-filetype, vim-luna,
vim-neocomplete, vim-neosnippet, vim-neosnippet-snippets, vim-scheme,
vim-syntastic, vinagre, volk, wificurse, wimlib, wwwoffle, wxsvg, xbattmon,
xcalc, xdot, xerces-c, xfce4-notifyd, xinetd, xmag, xmessage, xshogi,
you-get, youtube-dl-gui, zile-on-guile, zpaq, zstd

*** 1220 package updates

abbaye@2.0.1, abcde@2.8.1, abiword@3.0.2, acct@6.6.3, acme-client@0.1.16,
acpid@2.0.28, adwaita-icon-theme@3.24.0, aide@0.16, aisleriot@3.22.1,
allegro@5.0.11, allegro@5.2.0, alsa-lib@1.1.3, alsa-utils@1.1.3,
ams-lv2@1.2.1, amsynth@1.7.1, ansible@2.3.0.0, ant@1.9.9, apl@1.7,
aqbanking@5.6.12, arb@2.10.0, arc-icon-theme@20161122, arc-theme@20170302,
ardour@5.8, aria-maestosa@1.4.13, aria2@1.31.0,
arm-none-eabi-nano-toolchain@6.3.0, arm-none-eabi-toolchain@6.3.0,
armadillo@7.800.2, aseprite@1.1.7, assword@0.10, asymptote@2.41,
at-spi2-atk@2.22.0, at-spi2-core@2.22.0, atk@2.22.0, attica@5.34.0,
audacity@2.1.3, augeas@1.8.0, autoconf-archive@2017.03.21, autoconf@2.69,
awesome@4.0, awscli@1.11.63, baloo@5.34.0, bamtools@2.4.1, baobab@3.24.0,
bash-completion@2.5, bash-minimal@4.4.12, bash-static@4.4.12, bash@4.4.12,
bc@1.07.1, bedtools@2.26.0, beets@1.4.3, bind@9.11.1, bioruby@1.5.1,
bison@3.0.4, bitcoin-core@0.14.1, bitlbee@3.5.1, bluez-qt@5.34.0,
bluez@5.44, boost@1.63.0, borg@1.0.10, breeze-icons@5.34.0,
bs1770gain@0.4.12, btrfs-progs@4.10.2, bullet@2.86.1, bundler@1.14.5,
busybox@1.26.0, cairo-xcb@1.14.8, cairo@1.14.8, cairomm@1.12.2,
calibre@2.76.0, capnproto@0.6.0, cbatticon@1.6.5, ccache@3.3.4,
ccid@1.4.26, cd-hit@4.6.6, certbot@0.14.0, cgit@1.1, chicken@4.12.0,
cl-stumpwm@1.0.0, clang-runtime@3.9.1, clang@3.6.2, clang@3.7.1,
clang@3.8.1, clang@3.9.1, claws-mail@3.15.0, clutter-gst@3.0.22,
clutter-gtk@1.8.2, cmake@3.7.2, cmark@0.27.1, coda@2.18, cogl@1.22.2,
conky@1.10.6, connman@1.34, coreutils-minimal@8.26, coreutils@8.26,
coreutils@8.27, cppcheck@1.78, cpupower@4.11, cryptsetup-static@1.7.5,
cryptsetup@1.7.5, cuirass@0.0.1-6.870e8d6, cups-filters@1.13.1,
curl@7.53.0, d-feet@0.3.11, dash@0.5.9.1, datamash@1.1.1, dbus-glib@0.108,
dbus@1.10.16, dconf-editor@3.22.1, ddrescue@1.22, denemo@2.1,
desktop-file-utils@0.23, devhelp@3.22.0, devil@1.8.0, di@4.43,
diamond@0.8.38, diffoscope@81, diffstat@1.61, direnv@2.11.3, dlib@19.3,
dmenu@4.7, dnscrypt-proxy@1.9.5, docbook-xml@4.4, docbook-xml@4.5,
dosfstools@4.1, dovecot@2.2.29.1, doxygen@1.8.13, dropbear@2017.75,
drumkv1@0.8.2, dtc@1.4.4, duplicity@0.7.12, dwm@6.1, e2fsck-static@1.43.4,
e2fsprogs@1.43.4, ecl-stumpwm@1.0.0, ecl@16.1.3, ed@1.14.1, efl@1.18.5,
elfutils@0.169, elixir@1.4.2, emacs-auctex@11.90.0, emacs-bui@1.1.0,
emacs-clojure-mode@5.4.0, emacs-company@0.9.3, emacs-debbugs@0.14,
emacs-elfeed@2.1.0, emacs-emms@4.3, emacs-flycheck@30, emacs-guix@0.3.1,
emacs-ivy@0.9.1, emacs-magit-popup@2.10.3, emacs-minimal@25.2,
emacs-no-x-toolkit@25.2, emacs-no-x@25.2, emacs-org@20170502,
emacs-projectile@0.14.0, emacs-seq@2.19, emacs-slime@2.19,
emacs-smartparens@1.10.1, emacs-spinner@1.7.3, emacs-with-editor@2.5.10,
emacs-zenburn-theme@2.5, emacs@25.2, enlightenment@0.21.7, eog@3.20.5,
epiphany@3.22.7, erlang@19.3, ethtool@4.10, eudev@3.2.1, evince@3.22.1,
evolution-data-server@3.22.3, exempi@2.4.2, exfat-utils@1.2.6, exim@4.87.1,
extra-cmake-modules@5.34.0, extremetuxracer@0.7.4, eyed3@0.7.10,
fatfsck-static@4.1, faust@2.0.a51, feh@2.18.3, ffmpeg@2.8.11, ffmpeg@3.3.1,
file-roller@3.22.2, fio@2.19, fish@2.5.0, flac@1.3.2, flex@2.6.1,
flex@2.6.3, font-abattis-cantarell@0.0.25, font-gnu-unifont@9.0.06,
freefall@4.11, freetype@2.7.1, frescobaldi@3.0.0, fuse-exfat@1.2.6,
fuse@2.9.7, gajim@0.16.7, gcal@4.1,
gcc-cross-sans-libc-arm-none-eabi@5.4.0-1.227977,
gcc-cross-sans-libc-arm-none-eabi@6.3.0, gcc-stripped-tarball@5.4.0,
gcc-toolchain@4.9.4, gcc-toolchain@5.4.0, gcc-toolchain@6.3.0,
gcc-toolchain@7.1.0, gcc@4.8.5, gcc@4.9.4, gcc@5.4.0, gcc@6.3.0, gcc@7.1.0,
gcj@5.4.0, gd@2.2.4, gdb-arm-none-eabi@7.12.1, gdb@7.12.1,
gdk-pixbuf+svg@2.36.6, gdk-pixbuf@2.36.6, gdm@3.22.1, gedit@3.22.0,
geoclue@2.4.6, getmail@4.52.0, gflags@2.2.0, gfortran@6.3.0,
gfortran@7.1.0, ghc-quickcheck-instances@0.3.12, ghc-quickcheck@2.8.2,
ghc-semigroups@0.18.2, ghc-xmonad-contrib@0.12, ghc@8.0.2,
giac-xcas@1.2.3-37, gimp@2.8.22, girara@0.2.7, git-modes@1.2.4, git@2.13.0,
gitolite@3.6.6, gjs@1.46.0, glib-networking@2.50.0, glib@2.50.3,
glibc-hurd-headers@2.23, glibc-hurd@2.23, glibc-locales@2.25,
glibc-utf8-locales@2.25, glibc@2.22, glibc@2.23, glibc@2.24, glibc@2.25,
glibmm@2.50.0, global@6.5.6, glpk@4.61, glulxe@0.5.4, gmime@2.6.23,
gmp@6.1.2, gmsh@2.16.0, gnome-backgrounds@3.22.1, gnome-calendar@3.22.2,
gnome-control-center@3.22.1, gnome-desktop@3.22.2, gnome-klotski@3.22.1,
gnome-mines@3.22.2, gnome-mpv@0.11, gnome-online-accounts@3.22.3,
gnome-screenshot@3.22.0, gnome-session@3.22.2,
gnome-settings-daemon@3.22.1, gnome-shell-extensions@3.22.2,
gnome-shell@3.22.2, gnome-sudoku@3.22.2, gnome-system-monitor@3.22.2,
gnome-terminal@3.24.1, gnome-themes-standard@3.22.2,
gnome-tweak-tool@3.22.0, gnome@3.22.2, gnubik@2.4.3, gnucash@2.6.16,
gnupg@2.0.30, gnupg@2.1.20, gnuplot@5.0.6, gnurl@7.54.0, gnutls@3.5.9,
go@1.8.1, gobject-introspection@1.50.0, goffice@0.10.34, googletest@1.8.0,
gp2c@0.0.10, gparted@0.28.1, gperf@3.1, gpgme@1.9.0,
graphicsmagick@1.3.25-2.6156b4c, graphite2@1.3.9, greenisland@0.9.0.1,
grep@3.0, grilo-plugins@0.3.3, grilo@0.3.2,
gsettings-desktop-schemas@3.22.0, gst-libav@1.12.0, gst-plugins-bad@1.12.0,
gst-plugins-base@1.12.0, gst-plugins-good@1.12.0, gst-plugins-ugly@1.12.0,
gstreamer@1.12.0, gtk+@3.22.12, gtk-vnc@0.7.0, gtkmm@3.22.0,
gtksourceview@3.22.2, guile-aspell@0.4,
guile-bytestructures@20170402.91d042e, guile-daemon@0.1.2,
guile-json@0.6.0, guile-lib@0.2.5, guile-ncurses@2.2, guile-next@2.2.2,
guile-reader@0.6.2, guile-sqlite3@0.0-1.607721f, guile-ssh@0.11.0,
guile-static-stripped-tarball@2.0.14, guile-static-stripped@2.0.14,
guile2.2-json@0.6.0, guile@2.0.14, guile@2.2.2, guitarix-lv2@0.35.3,
guitarix@0.35.3, guix@0.12.0-11.ce92d26, gusb@0.2.9, gvfs@1.30.3,
gx-guvnor-lv2@0.1, gx-hyperion-lv2@0.1, gx-super-fuzz-lv2@0.1,
gx-suppa-tone-bender-lv2@0.1, gx-vintage-fuzz-master-lv2@0.1,
gx-voodoo-fuzz-lv2@0.1, gxtuner@2.4, harfbuzz@1.4.3, haunt@0.2.1,
hdf4-alt@4.2.12, hdf4@4.2.12, hdparm@9.52, hexchat@2.12.4,
hicolor-icon-theme@0.15, httpd@2.4.25, hwloc@1.11.7, hyperrogue@9.4g,
i3status@2.11, ibus-anthy@1.5.9, ibus-libpinyin@1.9.0, ibus@1.5.15,
icecat@52.1.0-gnu1, icedtea@3.3.0, icu4c@58.2, idris@1.0,
imagemagick@6.9.8-4, imlib2@1.4.10, inkscape@0.92.1, iperf@3.1.7,
iproute2@4.10.0, iptables@1.6.1, irssi@1.0.2, ixion@0.12.2, jack@0.125.0,
jalv-select@0.8, jalv@1.6.0, jasper@2.0.12, java-ngs@1.3.0, java-xz@1.6,
jemalloc@4.5.0, jsoncpp@1.8.0, julia@0.5.1, kactivities-stats@5.34.0,
kactivities@5.34.0, kapidox@5.34.0, karchive@5.34.0, kauth@5.34.0,
kbd@2.0.4, kbookmarks@5.34.0, kcmutils@5.34.0, kcodecs@5.34.0,
kcompletion@5.34.0, kconfig@5.34.0, kconfigwidgets@5.34.0,
kcoreaddons@5.34.0, kcrash@5.34.0, kdbusaddons@5.34.0, kdeclarative@5.34.0,
kded@5.34.0, kdesignerplugin@5.34.0, kdesu@5.34.0, kdevelop@5.1.0,
kdevplatform@5.1.0, kdnssd@5.34.0, kdoctools@5.34.0, kemoticons@5.34.0,
kfilemetadata@5.34.0, kglobalaccel@5.34.0, kguiaddons@5.34.0, khal@0.9.5,
khard@0.11.4, ki18n@5.34.0, kiconthemes@5.34.0, kidletime@5.34.0,
kimageformats@5.34.0, kinit@5.34.0, kio@5.34.0, kitemmodels@5.34.0,
kitemviews@5.34.0, kjobwidgets@5.34.0, kmod@24, knewstuff@5.34.0,
knotifications@5.34.0, knotifyconfig@5.34.0, kodi@18.0_alpha-4-b8ad238,
kpackage@5.34.0, kparts@5.34.0, kpeople@5.34.0, kplotting@5.34.0,
kpty@5.34.0, krunner@5.34.0, kservice@5.34.0, ksyntaxhighlighting@5.34.0,
ktexteditor@5.34.0, ktextwidgets@5.34.0, kunitconversion@5.34.0,
kwallet@5.34.0, kwayland@5.34.0, kwidgetsaddons@5.34.0,
kwindowsystem@5.34.0, kxmlgui@5.34.0, kxmlrpcclient@5.34.0, lablgtk@2.18.5,
lcms@2.8, ldc@0.17.3, ldc@1.1.1, leptonica@1.74.0, less@487,
letsencrypt@0.14.0, lftp@4.7.5, libarchive@3.2.2, libass@0.13.6,
libatomic-ops@7.4.4, libbluray@1.0.0, libcap@2.25, libchamplain@0.12.14,
libcmis@0.5.1, libdrm@2.4.80, libepoxy@1.4.1, libetonyek@0.1.6,
libetpan@1.8, libev@4.24, libevdev@1.5.6, libevent@2.1.8, libffcall@1.12,
libfm-extra@1.2.5, libfm@1.2.5, libgc@7.6.0, libgcrypt@1.7.6,
libgee@0.18.1, libgit2@0.25.1, libgnomekbd@3.22.0, libgpg-error@1.26,
libgsf@1.14.41, libgweather@3.20.4, libiberty@5.4.0, libiconv@1.15,
libidn2@0.16, libinput-minimal@1.7.0, libinput@1.7.0, libjpeg@9b,
libmp3splt@0.9.2, libmpdclient@2.11, libmtp@1.1.13, libnotify@0.7.7,
libosinfo@1.0.0, libpcap@1.8.1, libpciaccess@0.13.5, libpeas@1.20.0,
libpinyin@2.0.0, libpng@1.6.28, libpsl@0.17.0, libreoffice@5.3.1.2,
librep@0.92.6, libressl@2.5.4, libsamplerate@0.1.9, libseccomp@2.3.2,
libsndfile@1.0.28, libsodium@1.0.12, libssh2@1.8.0, libssh@0.7.4,
libtasn1@4.10, libtermkey@0.20, libtirpc@1.0.1, libunistring@0.9.7,
libupnp@1.6.21, libusb@1.0.21, libuv@1.11.0, libva@1.8.1,
libvirt-glib@1.0.0, libvirt@3.2.0, libvpx@1.6.1, libwacom@0.23,
libwebp@0.6.0, libwnck@3.20.1, libx11@1.6.5, libx264@20170316-2245,
libxcb@1.12, libxfont@2.0.1, libxi@1.7.9, libxkbcommon@0.7.1,
libxml++@3.0.1, libxpm@3.5.12, lilv@0.24.2, lilypond@2.19.58,
limnoria@2017.03.30, linux-libre-arm-generic@4.11,
linux-libre-headers@4.4.47, linux-libre@4.11, linux-libre@4.9.27,
linux-pam@1.3.0, llvm@3.6.2, llvm@3.7.1, llvm@3.8.1, llvm@3.9.1, lsof@4.89,
lua-lpeg@1.0.1, lua@5.3.4, luajit@2.1.0-beta2, lvm2-static@2.02.171,
lvm2@2.02.171, lxterminal@0.3.0, lynx@2.8.9dev.11, lz4@1.7.5, m4@1.4.18,
mafft@7.310, magit@2.10.3, mailutils@3.2, maim@4.4.62, man-pages@4.11,
manaplus@1.7.3.4, mariadb@10.1.23, mate-themes@3.22.10, mcelog@149,
mdadm-static@4.0, mdadm@4.0, mdds@1.2.2, menu-cache@1.0.2,
mesa-headers@17.0.4, mesa@17.0.4, mg@20161005, milkytracker@1.0.0,
minetest@0.4.15, miniupnpc@2.0.20170421, minixml@2.10, mit-krb5@1.14.4,
mlt@6.4.1, moc@2.5.2, mod-host@0.10.6-2.299a39774, modemmanager-qt@5.34.0,
moka-icon-theme@5.3.5, moreutils@0.60, mosh@1.3.0, mozjs@38.2.1.rc0,
mp3splt@2.6.2, mpd@0.20.6, mpfr@3.1.5, mpv@0.25.0, msgpack@1.4.2,
msmtp@1.6.6, mu@0.9.18, multiqc@0.9, mumble@1.2.19, mupdf@1.11, mutt@1.8.2,
mutter@3.22.2-1.23c315e, myrepos@1.20170129, mysql@5.7.18, nagios@4.2.4,
nano@2.8.2, nautilus@3.22.2, ncbi-vdb@2.8.2, ncmpc@0.27, neon@0.30.2,
netsurf@3.6, nettle@3.3, network-manager@1.6.2, networkmanager-qt@5.34.0,
nfs-utils@2.1.1, nginx@1.12.0, ngircd@24, ngs-sdk@1.3.0, ninja@1.7.2,
nix@1.11.9, nmap@7.40, node@7.8.0, non-sequencer@1.9.5-3.10c31e5,
non-session-manager@1.9.5-3.10c31e5, notmuch@0.24.1, nspr@4.14,
nss-certs@3.30.2, nss@3.30.2, ntp@4.2.8p10, obs@18.0.2, ocrad@0.26,
octave@4.2.1, offlineimap@7.1.0, ola@0.10.3, openjpeg@2.1.2, openssh@7.5p1,
openssl@1.1.0e, openvpn@2.4.2, opus@1.1.4, orcus@0.12.1,
owncloud-client@2.3.1, oxygen-icons@5.34.0, pango@1.40.3,
par2cmdline@0.7.0, parallel@20170422, pari-gp@2.9.1, password-store@1.7.1,
pciutils@3.5.4, pcmanfm@1.2.5, pcre2@10.23, pcre@8.40, pcsc-lite@1.8.20,
pd@0.47-1, perf@4.11, perl-b-hooks-endofscope@0.21, perl-capture-tiny@0.46,
perl-class-load@0.23, perl-clone@0.38, perl-common-sense@3.74,
perl-compress-raw-bzip2@2.074, perl-compress-raw-zlib@2.074,
perl-cpan-meta-check@0.011, perl-cpan-meta-requirements@2.140,
perl-cpan-meta-yaml@0.018, perl-db-file@1.840, perl-dbd-pg@3.5.3,
perl-dbd-sqlite@1.54, perl-devel-overloadinfo@0.004,
perl-devel-partialdump@0.18, perl-email-mime@1.940,
perl-email-simple@2.213, perl-image-exiftool@10.40, perl-io-compress@2.074,
perl-lingua-en-findnumber@1.32, perl-lingua-en-inflect-number@1.12,
perl-lingua-en-inflect@1.901, perl-lingua-en-number-isordinal@0.05,
perl-lingua-en-tagger@0.28, perl-module-runtime-conflicts@0.003,
perl-mojolicious@7.29, perl-moose@2.2004,
perl-package-deprecationmanager@0.17, perl-params-validate@1.26,
perl-parse-cpan-meta@2.150010, perl-scalar-list-utils@1.47,
perl-sub-name@0.21, perl-term-readkey@2.37, perl-test-cleannamespaces@0.22,
perl-test-exception@0.43, perl-test-simple@1.302078,
perl-test-warnings@0.026, perl-time-duration-parse@0.13,
perl-variable-magic@0.61, perl-xml-compile-soap@3.21,
perl-xml-compile-wsdl11@3.06, perl-yaml@1.23, perl-zip@1.59, phonon@4.9.1,
php@7.1.4, pianobar@2016.06.02, pidgin@2.12.0, pioneers@15.4, pius@2.2.4,
pkg-config@0.29.1, plasma-framework@5.34.0, podofo@0.9.5,
poppler-qt4@0.52.0, poppler-qt5@0.52.0, poppler@0.52.0,
portaudio@190600.20161030, postgresql@9.6.3, potrace@1.14,
powertabeditor@2.0.0-alpha9, progress@0.13.1, prosody@0.9.12,
proteinortho@5.16, proxychains-ng@4.12, psmisc@22.21, pugixml@1.8.1,
pulseaudio@10.0, python-acme@0.14.0, python-alembic@0.8.10,
python-appdirs@1.4.3, python-atomicwrites@1.1.5, python-babel@2.3.4,
python-backports-abc@0.5, python-beautifulsoup4@4.5.3,
python-botocore@1.5.26, python-certifi@2017.1.23, python-click-log@0.1.8,
python-click@6.7, python-colorama@0.3.7, python-cython@0.25.2,
python-dateutil@2.6.0, python-debian@0.1.28, python-decorator@4.0.10,
python-dendropy@4.2.0, python-django@1.10.7, python-drmaa@0.7.7,
python-email-validator@1.0.2, python-enum34@1.1.6,
python-feedgenerator@1.9, python-flake8@2.5.4, python-freezegun@0.3.8,
python-graphql-relay@0.4.5, python-greenlet@0.4.11, python-gst@1.12.0,
python-icalendar@3.11.4, python-ipaddress@1.0.18, python-ipykernel@4.5.2,
python-ipython@5.2.2, python-jupyter-core@4.2.1, python-libvirt@3.2.0,
python-llfuse@1.2, python-mako@1.0.6, python-markdown@2.6.8,
python-matplotlib@2.0.0, python-minimal-wrapper@3.5.3,
python-minimal@3.5.3, python-mistune@0.7.3, python-mutagen@1.36,
python-natsort@5.0.2, python-nbxmpp@0.5.5, python-ndg-httpsclient@0.4.2,
python-notmuch@0.24.1, python-numexpr@2.6.1, python-numpy@1.12.0,
python-orderedmultidict@0.7.11, python-oslosphinx@4.10.0,
python-pafy@0.5.3.1, python-pandas@0.19.2, python-paramiko@1.17.4,
python-parsedatetime@2.3, python-passlib@1.7.1, python-paste@2.0.3,
python-pbr@1.10.0, python-pexpect@4.2.1, python-pip@9.0.1, python-ply@3.9,
python-prompt-toolkit@1.0.9, python-psycopg2@2.6.2,
python-ptyprocess@0.5.1, python-publicsuffix2@2.20160818, python-py@1.4.32,
python-pycparser@2.17, python-pygame@1.9.3, python-pygments@2.1.3,
python-pygobject@3.22.0, python-pyicu@1.9.5, python-pyopenssl@17.0.0,
python-pyquery@1.2.17, python-pysam@0.10.0, python-pytest-cov@2.4.0,
python-pytest-django@3.1.2, python-pytest-runner@2.11.1,
python-pytest@3.0.7, python-pytz@2016.10, python-pyyaml@3.12,
python-rauth@0.7.3, python-redis@2.10.5, python-requests-mock@1.3.0,
python-requests@2.13.0, python-rq@0.7.1, python-s3transfer@0.1.10,
python-scikit-learn@0.18.1, python-scipy@0.18.1, python-seaborn@0.7.1,
python-setuptools-scm@1.15.0, python-sphinx@1.5.1, python-sphinx@1.5.3,
python-sphinxcontrib-programoutput@0.10, python-sqlalchemy-utils@0.32.13,
python-statsmodels@0.8.0, python-stem@1.5.4, python-sympy@1.0,
python-tabulate@0.7.7, python-testtools@1.4.0, python-texttable@0.8.7,
python-tornado@4.5.1, python-unidecode@0.04.20, python-waf@1.9.8,
python-wcwidth@0.1.7, python-werkzeug@0.11.15, python-wheel@0.30.0a0,
python-wrapper@3.5.3, python-wrapt@1.10.8, python-zope-component@4.3.0,
python2-acme@0.14.0, python2-alembic@0.8.10, python2-appdirs@1.4.3,
python2-atomicwrites@1.1.5, python2-babel@2.3.4, python2-backports-abc@0.5,
python2-beautifulsoup4@4.5.3, python2-botocore@1.5.26,
python2-certifi@2017.1.23, python2-click@6.7, python2-colorama@0.3.7,
python2-cython@0.25.2, python2-dateutil@2.6.0, python2-debian@0.1.28,
python2-decorator@4.0.10, python2-dendropy@4.2.0, python2-django@1.10.7,
python2-dogtail@0.9.9, python2-drmaa@0.7.7, python2-email-validator@1.0.2,
python2-enum34@1.1.6, python2-feedgenerator@1.9, python2-flake8@2.5.4,
python2-freezegun@0.3.8, python2-futures@3.0.5,
python2-graphql-relay@0.4.5, python2-greenlet@0.4.11, python2-gst@1.12.0,
python2-ipaddress@1.0.18, python2-ipykernel@4.5.2, python2-ipython@5.2.2,
python2-jupyter-core@4.2.1, python2-libvirt@3.2.0, python2-llfuse@1.2,
python2-mako@1.0.6, python2-markdown@2.6.8, python2-matplotlib@2.0.0,
python2-mistune@0.7.3, python2-mutagen@1.36, python2-natsort@5.0.2,
python2-nbxmpp@0.5.5, python2-ndg-httpsclient@0.4.2,
python2-notmuch@0.24.1, python2-numexpr@2.6.1, python2-numpy@1.12.0,
python2-orderedmultidict@0.7.11, python2-oslosphinx@4.10.0,
python2-pandas@0.19.2, python2-paramiko@1.17.4, python2-parsedatetime@2.3,
python2-passlib@1.7.1, python2-paste@2.0.3, python2-pbr@1.10.0,
python2-pexpect@4.2.1, python2-pip@9.0.1, python2-ply@3.9,
python2-prompt-toolkit@1.0.9, python2-psycopg2@2.6.2,
python2-ptyprocess@0.5.1, python2-publicsuffix2@2.20160818,
python2-py@1.4.32, python2-pycparser@2.17, python2-pygments@2.1.3,
python2-pygobject@3.22.0, python2-pyicu@1.9.5, python2-pyopenssl@17.0.0,
python2-pyquery@1.2.17, python2-pysam@0.10.0, python2-pysqlite@2.8.3,
python2-pytest-cov@2.4.0, python2-pytest-django@3.1.2,
python2-pytest-runner@2.11.1, python2-pytest@3.0.7, python2-pytz@2016.10,
python2-pyyaml@3.12, python2-rauth@0.7.3, python2-redis@2.10.5,
python2-requests-mock@1.3.0, python2-requests@2.13.0, python2-rq@0.7.1,
python2-s3transfer@0.1.10, python2-scikit-learn@0.18.1,
python2-scipy@0.18.1, python2-seaborn@0.7.1, python2-setuptools-scm@1.15.0,
python2-sphinx@1.5.1, python2-sphinxcontrib-programoutput@0.10,
python2-sqlalchemy-utils@0.32.13, python2-statsmodels@0.8.0,
python2-stem@1.5.4, python2-sympy@1.0, python2-tabulate@0.7.7,
python2-testtools@1.4.0, python2-texttable@0.8.7, python2-tornado@4.5.1,
python2-unidecode@0.04.20, python2-waf@1.9.8, python2-wcwidth@0.1.7,
python2-werkzeug@0.11.15, python2-wheel@0.30.0a0, python2-wrapt@1.10.8,
python2-xdo@0.3, python2-zope-component@4.3.0, python@3.5.3, qca@2.1.3,
qemu-minimal@2.9.0, qemu@2.9.0, qsyncthingtray@0.5.7, qsynth@0.4.4,
qt@5.6.2, qtbase@5.7.1, qtconnectivity@5.7.1, qtdeclarative@5.7.1,
qtgraphicaleffects@5.7.1, qtimageformats@5.7.1, qtkeychain@0.8.0,
qtlocation@5.7.1, qtmultimedia@5.7.1, qtquickcontrols2@5.7.1,
qtquickcontrols@5.7.1, qtractor@0.8.1, qtscript@5.7.1, qtsensors@5.7.1,
qtserialport@5.7.1, qtsvg@5.7.1, qttools@5.7.1, qtwayland@5.7.1,
qtwebchannel@5.7.1, qtwebkit@5.7.1, qtwebsockets@5.7.1, qtx11extras@5.7.1,
qtxmlpatterns@5.7.1, r-ade4@1.7-6, r-annotate@1.54.0,
r-annotationdbi@1.38.0, r-annotationforge@1.18.0, r-assertthat@0.2.0,
r-backports@1.0.5, r-bamsignals@1.8.0, r-bbmisc@1.11, r-bh@1.62.0-1,
r-biobase@2.36.0, r-bioccheck@1.12.0, r-biocgenerics@0.22.0,
r-biocinstaller@1.26.0, r-biocparallel@1.10.0, r-biocstyle@2.4.0,
r-biocviews@1.44.0, r-biomart@2.32.0, r-biostrings@2.44.0,
r-bsgenome@1.44.0, r-category@2.42.0, r-chron@2.3-50, r-cluster@2.0.6,
r-coda@0.19-1, r-colorspace@1.3-2, r-curl@2.5, r-data-table@1.10.4,
r-dbi@0.6-1, r-deseq2@1.16.0, r-digest@0.6.12, r-dnacopy@1.50.0,
r-e1071@1.6-8, r-edger@3.18.0, r-estimability@1.2, r-fastcluster@1.1.22,
r-gdtools@0.1.4, r-genefilter@1.58.0, r-geneplotter@1.54.0,
r-genomation@1.8.0, r-genomeinfodb@1.12.0, r-genomicalignments@1.12.0,
r-genomicfeatures@1.28.0, r-genomicranges@1.28.0, r-ggplot2@2.2.1,
r-git2r@0.18.0, r-gostats@2.42.0, r-graph@1.54.0, r-grohmm@1.10.0,
r-gseabase@1.38.0, r-hexbin@1.27.1-1, r-hmisc@4.0-2, r-hms@0.3,
r-htmltable@1.9, r-htmlwidgets@0.8, r-impute@1.50.0, r-iranges@2.10.0,
r-jsonlite@1.4, r-knitr@1.15.1, r-lattice@0.20-35, r-limma@3.32.0,
r-markdown@0.8, r-matrix@1.2-8, r-matrixstats@0.52.2, r-memoise@1.1.0,
r-mgcv@1.8-17, r-motifrg@1.20.0, r-multitaper@1.0-13,
r-mutationalpatterns@1.2.0, r-mvtnorm@1.0-6, r-openssl@0.9.6,
r-plotly@4.5.6, r-plotrix@3.6-4, r-pracma@2.0.4, r-preprocesscore@1.38.0,
r-qtl@1.40-8, r-r-rsp@0.41.0, r-r-utils@2.5.0, r-rbgl@1.52.0, r-rcas@1.1.1,
r-rcpp@0.12.10, r-rcpparmadillo@0.7.800.2.0, r-readr@1.1.0,
r-rhtslib@1.8.0, r-rmarkdown@1.4, r-roxygen2@6.0.1, r-rpart@4.1-11,
r-rsamtools@1.28.0, r-rsqlite@1.1-2, r-rtracklayer@1.36.0, r-rtsne@0.13,
r-s4vectors@0.14.0, r-scales@0.4.1, r-seqinr@3.3-6, r-seqlogo@1.42.0,
r-seqpattern@1.8.0, r-servr@0.5, r-shortread@1.34.0, r-sparsem@1.76,
r-stringi@1.1.5, r-stringr@1.2.0, r-summarizedexperiment@1.6.0,
r-survival@2.41-3, r-svglite@1.2.0, r-systempiper@1.10.0, r-tibble@1.3.0,
r-tidyr@0.6.1, r-topgo@2.28.0, r-variantannotation@1.22.0, r-vegan@2.4-3,
r-viridis@0.4.0, r-viridislite@0.2.0, r-xml2@1.1.1, r-xml@3.98-1.6,
r-xvector@0.16.0, r-yaml@2.1.14, r-zlibbioc@1.22.0, r-zoo@1.8-0, r@3.4.0,
racket@6.8, radeontop@1.0, radicale@1.1.2, ratpoison@1.4.9,
raul@0.8.4-1.f8bf77d3c, raxml@8.2.10, re2@2017-05-01, red-eclipse@1.5.8,
retroarch@1.5.0, rhythmbox@3.4.1, rofi@1.3.1, rpcbind@0.2.4,
ruby-coderay@1.1.1, ruby-hoe@3.16.0, ruby-minitar@0.5.4-1.e25205ec,
ruby-minitest@5.10.1, ruby-nokogiri@1.7.0.1, ruby-pry@0.10.4,
ruby-rspec-expectations@3.5.0, ruby-rspec@3.5.0,
ruby-shoulda-matchers@3.1.1, ruby-slop@4.1.0, ruby-sqlite3@1.3.13,
ruby-yard@0.9.6, rustc@1.16.0, samba@4.5.8, samplv1@0.8.2, samtools@1.3.1,
sbcl-stumpwm-with-slynk@1.0.0, sbcl-stumpwm@1.0.0, schismtracker@20170420,
screen@4.5.1, sdl-gfx@2.0.26, sed@4.4, serd@0.26.0, serf@1.3.9,
sessreg@1.1.1, setbfree@0.8.4, shadow@4.4, shared-mime-info@1.8,
shotwell@0.25.5, simple-scan@3.24.1, slock@1.4, slop@5.3.37,
slurm@16.05.9.1, snakemake@3.11.2, solid@5.34.0, sonnet@5.34.0,
sord@0.16.0, soxr@0.1.2, spice-gtk@0.33, spice-protocol@0.12.12,
sqlite@3.17.0, sra-tools@2.8.2-1, sratom@0.6.0, sshfs-fuse@2.9, stagit@0.5,
star@2.5.3a, starfighter@1.7, stellarium@0.15.1, strace@4.16,
sudo@1.8.19p1, suil@0.8.4, supertux@0.5.1, surf@2.0, synergy@1.8.8,
synthv1@0.8.2, talloc@2.1.9, tcl@8.6.6, tcpdump@4.9.0, tcsh@6.20.00,
telepathy-mission-control@5.16.4, terminology@1.0.0, texinfo@5.2,
texinfo@6.3, the-silver-searcher@1.0.2, thefuck@3.16, threadweaver@5.34.0,
tiled@0.18.2, tintin++@2.01.2, tk@8.6.6, tmux@2.4, tomb@2.3, tor@0.3.0.7,
totem-pl-parser@3.10.7, totem@3.22.0, trash-cli@0.17.1.14, tuxguitar@1.4,
tvtime@1.0.11, txt2man@1.6.0, tzdata@2017a, tzdata@2017b,
u-boot-am335x_boneblack@2017.03, u-boot-malta@2017.03,
u-boot-vexpress_ca9x4@2017.03, unionfs-fuse-static@2.0, unionfs-fuse@2.0,
units@2.14, upower@0.99.4, utf8proc@2.1.0, util-linux@2.29.2,
v4l-utils@1.12.3, vala@0.34.4, vapoursynth@37, vc-dwim@1.8,
vcftools@0.1.15, vdirsyncer@0.15.0, vim-full@8.0.0566, vim@8.0.0566,
virglrenderer@0.6.0, virt-manager@1.4.1, vis@0.3, vsearch@2.4.3,
vte-ng@0.48.2.a, vte@0.48.2, w3m@0.5.3+git20170102, wavpack@5.1.0,
wayland@1.13.0, wcslib@5.16, webkitgtk@2.16.2, weechat@1.8, weston@2.0.0,
wget@1.19.1, whois@5.2.15, windowmaker@0.95.8, wine@2.4, wiredtiger@2.9.1,
wireless-regdb@2017.03.07, wireshark@2.2.6, wxwidgets@3.0.2,
wxwidgets@3.1.0, x265@2.3, xapian@1.4.4, xauth@1.0.10, xcape@1.2,
xcb-proto@1.12, xcb-util-cursor@0.1.3, xcb-util-xrm@1.2, xdg-utils@1.1.1,
xf86-input-evdev@2.10.5, xf86-input-libinput@0.25.1,
xf86-input-wacom@0.34.0, xf86-video-geode@2.11.19, xf86-video-glint@1.2.9,
xf86-video-intel@2.99.917-5-b57abe2, xf86-video-mga@1.6.5,
xf86-video-nouveau@1.0.15, xf86-video-nv@2.1.21, xf86-video-qxl@0.1.5,
xf86-video-r128@6.10.2, xf86-video-savage@2.3.9,
xf86-video-siliconmotion@1.7.9, xf86-video-sis@0.10.9,
xf86-video-tdfx@1.4.7, xf86-video-trident@1.3.8, xf86-video-vmware@13.2.1,
xfce4-terminal@0.8.3, xkeyboard-config@2.20, xmonad@0.12, xonsh@0.5.9,
xorg-server-xwayland@1.19.3, xorg-server@1.19.3, xproto@7.0.31,
xscreensaver@5.36, yadifa@2.2.4, yelp@3.22.0, yoshimi@1.5.1.1, yosys@0.7,
youtube-dl@2017.05.07, zathura-cb@0.1.6, zathura-djvu@0.2.6,
zathura-pdf-poppler@0.2.7, zathura-ps@0.2.4, zathura@0.3.7, zenity@3.22.0,
zimg@2.5, zlib@1.2.11, znc@1.6.5

** Programming interfaces

*** (guix scripts challenge) returns complete reports, not just discrepancies
*** New ‘dub-build-system’ for the D language and Dub
*** New ‘ocaml-build-system’ for software written in OCaml
*** Improvements to the ‘asdf-build-system’ for software written in various Common Lisp dialects.
*** New ‘package-mapping’ procedure to rewrite package dependency graphs
*** New modules: (guix workers), (guix discovery), (guix cache),
    (guix memoization), (guix ssh), (gnu build shepherd)
*** (gnu build file-systems) now has support for ISO-9660 file systems.

** Noteworthy bug fixes

*** Create home directories once file systems are mounted
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/21108>)
*** GNU R now builds bit-reproducibly (<https://bugs.gnu.org/25598>)
*** The daemon’s default settings are used unless overriden
    (<https://bugs.gnu.org/20217>)
*** ‘guix system’ now supports the common build option ‘--root’
    (<https://bugs.gnu.org/26271>)
*** Mesa uses LLVM for better Gallium performance (<https://bugs.gnu.org/25953>)
*** Grafting no longer triggers a download of all the outputs of each derivation
    (<https://bugs.gnu.org/24886>)
*** Home directories are created when using a separate /home
    (<https://bugs.gnu.org/21108>)

** Native language support

Updated translations: fr (French)

* Changes in 0.12.0 (since 0.11.0)

** Package management

*** Guix can now be built with Guile 2.1/2.2
*** New ‘--with-graft’ package transformation option
*** Grafting is now faster than before
*** The ‘replacement’ of a package can now have a different name
*** ‘guix-daemon’ offloading support now uses Guile-SSH
*** New ‘guix offload test’ command
*** New updaters for ‘guix refresh’: ‘kernel.org’, ‘cpan’, ‘crates’
*** ‘guix refresh --list-updaters’ shows updater coverage
*** New ‘cargo-build-system’ and importer for Rust packages
*** New ‘asdf-build-system’ for Common Lisp packages
*** Python build system now uses setuptools by default
*** New updater for CPAN packages
*** Added ‘--recursive’ option for importer for the CRAN/Bioconductor importer
*** New d3.js backend for ‘guix graph’
*** ‘guix package’ now displays generation diffs
*** New services
New services for CUPS printing, SPICE vdagent, SDDM, a login service, kmscon service, opensmtpd mail service, git service, wpa-supplicant service, rottlog, OpenSSH, Cuirass, and NFS related services.
*** New arm-none-eabi cross-compiler toolchains
*** New 'guix system' actions: ‘switch-generation’ and ‘roll-back’

** Distribution

*** GuixSD can now be installed to a LUKS-encrypted root
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/21843>)
*** ‘openssl’ has a new “doc” output for its man pages
*** Added support for a native GNU/Hurd system
*** New system tests for the OpenSSH and Dropbear daemons
*** New tests for the GuixSD installation on encrypted or RAID roots
*** New ‘netmask’ option for ‘static-networking-service’
*** New “i686-w64-mingw32” cross-compilation target (MinGW)
*** A modular set of packages supersede the monolithic ‘qt’ package
*** 853 new packages

abc, acme-client, aircrack-ng, ams-lv2, ao-cad, arachne-pnr,
arm-none-eabi-nano-toolchain, arm-none-eabi-nano-toolchain,
arm-none-eabi-toolchain, arm-none-eabi-toolchain, asn1c, aspell-dict-de,
aspell-dict-el, aspell-dict-grc, aspell-dict-he, aspell-dict-sv, assimp,
attica, autossh, b43-tools, baloo, bambam, bamm, bcftools, biber, biber-next,
bind, bluefish, bluez-qt, bpp-core, bpp-phyl, bpp-popgen, bpp-seq, bppsuite,
breeze-icons, bs1770gain, bwm-ng, c-toxcore, cairo-xcb, capnproto,
cargo-bootstrap, cbatticon, ccid, cfitsio, chez-fmt, chez-irregex,
chez-matchable, chez-mit, chez-scmutils, chez-sockets, chez-srfi, chez-web,
chromaprint, cl-alexandria, cl-bordeaux-threads, cl-clx, cl-fiveam,
cl-flexi-streams, cl-ppcre, cl-slynk, cl-stumpwm, cl-trivial-gray-streams,
clipit, clojure, cmark, coda, cryptsetup-static, cuirass, darkhttpd, dash,
dbacl, dbus-c++, denemo, ding, direnv, discrover, dlib, dnscrypt-proxy,
dnscrypt-wrapper, dotconf, drumkv1, dtc, ecl-alexandria, ecl-bordeaux-threads,
ecl-cl-ppcre, ecl-clx, ecl-fiveam, ecl-flexi-streams, ecl-slynk, ecl-stumpwm,
ecl-trivial-gray-streams, econnman, ecryptfs-utils, edi, editres, efibootmgr,
efivar, emacs-ahungry-theme, emacs-auto-complete, emacs-bui,
emacs-cyberpunk-theme, emacs-d-mode, emacs-danneskjold-theme, emacs-el-search,
emacs-emms-mode-line-cycle, emacs-es-mode, emacs-evil, emacs-flx,
emacs-goto-chg, emacs-guix, emacs-neotree, emacs-nginx-mode, emacs-org,
emacs-org-trello, emacs-paredit, emacs-request, emacs-rudel, emacs-stream,
enet, epic5, eschalot, espeak, exonerate, extempore, fatfsck-static, fbida,
fcgi, fcgiwrap, femtolisp, filteraudio, fio, font-adobe-source-code-pro,
font-fira-mono, freealut, gcc-cross-sans-libc-arm-none-eabi,
gcc-cross-sans-libc-arm-none-eabi, gcompris, gctp, gdb-arm-none-eabi,
geierlein, geteltorito, gettext-minimal, gforth, ghc-array,
ghc-base16-bytestring, ghc-binary, ghc-bytestring, ghc-bytestring-handle,
ghc-chell, ghc-chell-quickcheck, ghc-colour, ghc-conduit-extra,
ghc-constraints, ghc-cryptohash, ghc-data-accessor,
ghc-data-accessor-transformers, ghc-data-ordlist, ghc-directory, ghc-easyplot,
ghc-fgl-arbitrary, ghc-findbin, ghc-fsnotify, ghc-gnuplot, ghc-graphviz,
ghc-hashtables, ghc-haskeline, ghc-hinotify, ghc-hmatrix, ghc-hmatrix-gsl,
ghc-hmatrix-gsl-stats, ghc-hmatrix-special, ghc-hs-bibutils, ghc-ieee754,
ghc-lifted-async, ghc-monads-tf, ghc-options, ghc-pandoc-citeproc,
ghc-patience, ghc-process, ghc-regex-applicative, ghc-regex-compat-tdfa,
ghc-regex-tdfa, ghc-rfc5051, ghc-sandi, ghc-shelly, ghc-storable-complex,
ghc-system-fileio, ghc-system-filepath, ghc-tar, ghc-tasty-rerun,
ghc-tasty-th, ghc-terminal-size, ghc-transformers, ghc-transformers,
ghc-utility-ht, ghc-wl-pprint-text, ghc-xml-conduit, ghc-xml-types, glfw,
gloox, gnome-calculator, gnome-dictionary, gnome-system-monitor, gnuastro,
goaccess, gobby, gparted, gpgmepp, grantlee, greenisland, grub-efi, gsm,
gtkwave, gucharmap, guile-aspell, guile-bytestructures, guile-commonmark,
guile2.2-commonmark, guile2.2-irregex, guile2.2-json, guile2.2-minikanren,
guile2.2-redis, guitarix-lv2, gx-guvnor-lv2, gx-hyperion-lv2,
gx-overdriver-lv2, gx-push-pull-lv2, gx-saturator-lv2, gx-slow-gear-lv2,
gx-super-fuzz-lv2, gx-suppa-tone-bender-lv2, gx-switchless-wah-lv2,
gx-tone-mender-lv2, gx-vbass-preamp-lv2, gx-vintage-fuzz-master-lv2,
gx-voodoo-fuzz-lv2, gxtuner, gzstream, handbrake, hdf-eos2, hdf-eos5, hdf4,
hdf4-alt, hidapi, highlight, httptunnel, hyperrogue, icestorm, ii, impressive,
infamous-plugins, infernal, ingen, interrobang, iperf, ircii, iverilog,
jack-keyboard, jalv-select, jimtcl, jsoncpp, jupyter, kactivities,
kactivities-stats, kapidox, karchive, kauth, kbookmarks, kcmutils, kcodecs,
kcompletion, kconfig, kconfigwidgets, kcoreaddons, kcrash, kdbusaddons,
kdeclarative, kded, kdesignerplugin, kdesu, kdevelop, kdevelop-pg-qt,
kdevplatform, kdnssd, kdoctools, kemoticons, keyutils, kfilemetadata,
kglobalaccel, kguiaddons, ki18n, kicad, kicad-library, kiconthemes, kidletime,
kimageformats, kinit, kio, kiss-fft-for-extempore, kitemmodels, kitemviews,
kjobwidgets, kmscon, knewstuff, knotifications, knotifyconfig, kobodeluxe,
kpackage, kparts, kpeople, kplotting, kpmcore, kpty, krunner, kservice,
ksyntaxhighlighting, ktexteditor, ktextwidgets, kunitconversion, kwallet,
kwayland, kwidgetsaddons, kxmlgui, kxmlrpcclient, laby, lci, lekha, libaacs,
libasr, libbdplus, libhdate, libicns, libidn2, libjaylink, libjpeg-turbo,
libjxr, libkomparediff2, libksysguard, libnet6, libnfsidmap, libosinfo,
libpqxx, libpsyc, libseccomp, libtermkey, libtoxcore, libtsm, libunique,
libvirt, libvirt-glib, limnoria, linux-libre-arm-generic, llvm-with-rtti,
lmdb, lndir, lua-lgi, lua-lpeg, lua5.1-expat, lua5.1-filesystem, lua5.1-sec,
lua5.1-sec, lua5.1-socket, lvm2-static, m17n-db, m17n-lib, mash, mb2md,
mcelog, mcl, mdadm-static, mhonarc, microcom, minced, mingw-w64, mktorrent,
mlocate, mobile-broadband-provider-info, mod-host, mod-utilities,
modemmanager-qt, mono, mpop, mps-youtube, mrrescue, mtd-utils, mumble, musl,
nanovg-for-extempore, nethogs, netsurf, networkmanager-qt, newick-utils,
newlib, newlib-nano, newsbeuter, nfs-utils, nickle, non-session-manager,
notifymuch, obby, ocaml-menhir, ola, onionshare, openfwwf-firmware, openh264,
openocd, opensmtpd, opensmtpd-extras, optipng, p7zip, pam-krb5, par2cmdline,
pcb-rnd, pcsc-lite, pdf2svg, pdfposter, perl-array-utils,
perl-autovivification, perl-business-isbn, perl-business-isbn-data,
perl-business-ismn, perl-business-issn, perl-class-errorhandler,
perl-crypt-openssl-bignum, perl-crypt-openssl-random, perl-crypt-openssl-rsa,
perl-curses, perl-data-compare, perl-data-uniqid, perl-date-simple,
perl-datetime-calendar-julian, perl-datetime-format-mail,
perl-datetime-format-w3cdtf, perl-digest-md5, perl-encode-detect,
perl-encode-eucjpascii, perl-encode-hanextra, perl-encode-jis2k,
perl-env-path, perl-extutils-libbuilder, perl-feed-find,
perl-file-find-object, perl-file-find-object-rule, perl-file-grep,
perl-file-path, perl-file-slurper, perl-geo-ip, perl-getopt-long, perl-graph,
perl-graph-readwrite, perl-io-socket-inet6, perl-ipc-cmd,
perl-lingua-translit, perl-mail-spf, perl-modern-perl, perl-mojolicious,
perl-mozilla-ca, perl-net-cidr-lite, perl-net-dns,
perl-net-dns-resolver-programmable, perl-net-patricia, perl-net-psyc,
perl-net-statsd, perl-netaddr-ip, perl-parse-yapp, perl-path-tiny,
perl-socket6, perl-sort-key, perl-test-files, perl-test-manifest,
perl-test-trailingspace, perl-text-bibtex, perl-text-csv-xs, perl-text-roman,
perl-tie-cycle, perl-unicode-collate, perl-unicode-normalize,
perl-unicode-utf8, perl-uri-fetch, perl-uri-template, perl-www-opensearch,
perl-xml-atom, perl-xml-feed, perl-xml-libxslt, perl-xml-rss, perl-xml-writer,
perl-xml-xpath, phonon, php, picocom, pinentry-gnome3, plantuml,
plasma-framework, portmidi-for-extempore, prank, prosody, proteinortho,
proxychains-ng, psyclpc, pybitmessage, python-aniso8601, python-argcomplete,
python-axolotl, python-axolotl-curve25519, python-bcrypt, python-betamax,
python-binaryornot, python-biom-format, python-bleach, python-cachecontrol,
python-consul, python-cov-core, python-discogs-client, python-django,
python-django-filter, python-django-simple-math-captcha, python-entrypoints,
python-feedparser, python-flask-babel, python-flask-basicauth,
python-flask-restful, python-flask-restful-swagger, python-flask-restplus,
python-flask-sqlalchemy, python-freezegun, python-furl, python-future,
python-git-review, python-glances, python-graphene, python-graphql-core,
python-graphql-relay, python-i3-py, python-imagesize, python-ipaddress,
python-ipykernel, python-ipywidgets, python-jupyter-client,
python-jupyter-console, python-jupyter-core, python-kivy, python-kivy-next,
python-libvirt, python-lirc, python-lit, python-mailmanclient, python-natsort,
python-nautilus, python-nbconvert, python-nbformat, python-nltk, python-nose2,
python-notebook, python-notmuch, python-odfpy, python-orderedmultidict,
python-pafy, python-peewee, python-pika, python-polib, python-promise,
python-publicsuffix, python-publicsuffix2, python-pycodestyle, python-pyev,
python-pymongo, python-pypdf2, python-pyserial, python-pytest-django,
python-pytest-flakes, python-pytest-mock, python-pytest-pep8,
python-pythondialog, python-pyxb, python-q, python-rednose, python-reportlab,
python-requests-oauthlib, python-rst.linker, python-s3transfer,
python-sadisplay, python-schematics, python-setproctitle, python-sh,
python-socksipy-branch, python-sqlalchemy-utils, python-stem,
python-termcolor, python-termstyle, python-testpath, python-url,
python-validictory, python-webencodings, python-whoosh,
python-widgetsnbextension, python-xopen, python2-argcomplete, python2-axolotl,
python2-axolotl-curve25519, python2-bcrypt, python2-betamax,
python2-binaryornot, python2-biom-format, python2-bleach,
python2-cachecontrol, python2-consul, python2-cov-core,
python2-discogs-client, python2-django, python2-django-filter,
python2-django-simple-math-captcha, python2-entrypoints, python2-feedparser,
python2-flask-babel, python2-flask-restful-swagger, python2-freezegun,
python2-furl, python2-future, python2-git-review, python2-glances,
python2-graphene, python2-graphql-core, python2-graphql-relay, python2-i3-py,
python2-imagesize, python2-ipykernel, python2-ipywidgets,
python2-jupyter-client, python2-jupyter-console, python2-jupyter-core,
python2-kivy, python2-kivy-next, python2-libvirt, python2-lirc, python2-lit,
python2-mailmanclient, python2-natsort, python2-nbconvert, python2-nbformat,
python2-nltk, python2-nose2, python2-notebook, python2-odfpy,
python2-orderedmultidict, python2-pathlib2, python2-peewee, python2-pika,
python2-polib, python2-promise, python2-publicsuffix, python2-publicsuffix2,
python2-pycodestyle, python2-pyev, python2-pymongo, python2-pypdf,
python2-pypdf2, python2-pyserial, python2-pytest-django,
python2-pytest-flakes, python2-pytest-mock, python2-pytest-pep8, python2-pyxb,
python2-q, python2-reportlab, python2-requests-oauthlib, python2-rpython,
python2-rst.linker, python2-s3transfer, python2-sadisplay, python2-schematics,
python2-setproctitle, python2-sh, python2-socksipy-branch,
python2-sqlalchemy-utils, python2-stem, python2-termcolor, python2-testpath,
python2-url, python2-validictory, python2-webencodings, python2-whoosh,
python2-widgetsnbextension, python2-wxpython, python2-xopen, qmidiarp,
qsyncthingtray, qtgraphicaleffects, qtox, qtquickcontrols, qtquickcontrols2,
qtwebkit, quickswitch-i3, qwt, r-annotate, r-annotationforge, r-backports,
r-bamsignals, r-batchjobs, r-bbmisc, r-bigmemory, r-bigmemory-sri,
r-bioccheck, r-biocinstaller, r-biocstyle, r-biocviews, r-bit, r-bit64,
r-bsgenome-celegans-ucsc-ce10, r-category, r-cellranger, r-checkmate,
r-chipkernels, r-deseq2, r-dynamictreecut, r-e1071, r-fail, r-fastcluster,
r-gdata, r-genefilter, r-geneplotter, r-getopt, r-gkmsvm, r-googlesheets,
r-gostats, r-gplots, r-grohmm, r-gseabase, r-gtools, r-hmisc, r-hms,
r-htmltable, r-hwriter, r-kernlab, r-kernsmooth, r-matrix,
r-mutationalpatterns, r-optparse, r-pheatmap, r-preprocesscore, r-purrr,
r-quadprog, r-r4rna, r-rbgl, r-rcas, r-rematch, r-rhtslib, r-rjson, r-rocr,
r-rpart, r-rtsne, r-segmented, r-sendmailr, r-seqgl, r-sfsmisc, r-shortread,
r-spams, r-survival, r-synchronicity, r-systempiper, r-tibble,
r-txdb-hsapiens-ucsc-hg19-knowngene, r-viridislite, r-wgcna, radeontop, raxml,
rcas-web, re2, remind, rkflashtool, roary, rpcbind, ruby-gherkin,
ruby-net-http-digest-auth, rustc, samplv1, sane-backends-minimal,
sbcl-alexandria, sbcl-bordeaux-threads, sbcl-cl-ppcre, sbcl-clx, sbcl-fiveam,
sbcl-flexi-streams, sbcl-slynk, sbcl-stumpwm, sbcl-stumpwm-with-slynk,
sbcl-trivial-gray-streams, schismtracker, sdcc, sddm, sendmail, sent, seq24,
seqtk, sg3-utils, sic, snappy, solid, sonata, sonnet, speech-dispatcher,
sqlcipher, squeak-vm, sshoot, sshuttle, sslh, stagit, stb-image-for-extempore,
steghide, stfl, stress-make, sunxi-tools, supertuxkart, surfraw,
swh-plugins-lv2, swish-e, tcp-wrappers, telepathy-idle,
telepathy-mission-control, teximpatient, threadweaver, tint2, tintin++,
tinyxml2, tomb, u-boot-am335x_boneblack, u-boot-malta, u-boot-vexpress_ca9x4,
uget, utox, vc, viewnior, vifm, vim-full, virt-manager, vis,
wayland-protocols, wcslib, weston, wgetpaste, whois, wxwidgets-gtk2, x265,
xcalib, xcb-util-xrm, xlsx2csv, xonsh, xorg-server-xwayland, xpad, yadifa,
yaml-cpp, yosys, ytalk, zzuf
*** 864 package updates

abcde-2.7.2, accountsservice-0.6.43, adns-1.5.1, aisleriot-3.20.2,
allegro-5.2.0, alot-0.4, alsa-utils-1.1.2, apl-1.6, aragorn-1.2.38,
ardour-5.5, argon2-20161029, aria2-1.29.0, armadillo-7.500.0,
armadillo-7.500.0, aspell-dict-en-2016.11.20-0, at-spi2-core-2.20.2,
atlas-3.10.3, autoconf-2.69, autoconf-archive-2016.09.16, autogen-5.18.12,
autojump-22.3.4, avr-binutils-2.27, avr-gcc-5.4.0, avr-toolchain-5.4.0,
awesome-3.5.9, awscli-1.11.5, babl-0.1.18, bash-4.4.0, bash-completion-2.4,
bash-minimal-4.4.0, bash-static-4.4.0, bdb-6.2.23, bedtools-2.26.0,
beets-1.4.1, binutils-2.27, binutils-static-stripped-tarball-2.27,
bioperl-minimal-1.7.0, bison-3.0.4, bitcoin-core-0.13.0, blender-2.78a,
bluez-5.43, boost-1.61.0, borg-1.0.8, bowtie-2.2.9, btrfs-progs-4.8.5,
bullet-2.85.1, bundler-1.13.6, c-ares-1.12.0, c-reduce-2.5.0, calibre-2.74.0,
caribou-0.4.21, ccache-3.3.3, cereal-1.2.1, certbot-0.9.3, chess-6.2.4,
chromium-bsu-0.9.16.1, claws-mail-3.14.1, clipper-1.1, cmake-3.6.1,
cmocka-1.1.0, connman-1.33, coq-8.5pl2, cppcheck-1.76.1, cpupower-4.8.15,
cryptsetup-1.7.3, cssc-1.4.0, cups-2.2.1, cups-filters-1.11.5,
cups-minimal-2.2.1, curl-7.50.3, cutadapt-1.12, dblatex-0.3.9, dbus-1.10.14,
dbus-glib-0.106, dconf-editor-3.20.3, dejagnu-1.6, diamond-0.8.29, dico-2.4,
diffoscope-63, diffutils-3.5, direvent-5.1, docbook-xml-4.4, docbook-xml-4.5,
docbook-xsl-1.79.1, dovecot-2.2.27, dropbear-2016.74, drumstick-1.1.0,
efl-1.18.4, eigen-3.2.9, elfutils-0.167, emacs-25.1, emacs-dash-2.13.0,
emacs-debbugs-0.12, emacs-emms-4.2, emacs-emms-player-mpv-0.0.10,
emacs-expand-region-0.11.0, emacs-f-0.18.2, emacs-hl-todo-1.7.4,
emacs-hydra-0.13.6, emacs-magit-popup-2.8.0, emacs-minimal-25.1,
emacs-no-x-25.1, emacs-no-x-toolkit-25.1, emacs-s-1.11.0,
emacs-smartparens-1.8.0, emacs-with-editor-2.5.8, encfs-1.9.1,
enlightenment-0.21.5, entr-3.6, eog-3.20.4, epiphany-3.22.1, ethtool-4.8,
eudev-3.2, evince-3.20.1, evolution-data-server-3.20.5, exfat-utils-1.2.5,
expat-2.2.0, extra-cmake-modules-5.28.0, extremetuxracer-0.7.3, faust-2.0.a51,
ffmpeg-2.8.9, ffmpeg-3.2.2, fftw-3.3.5, fftw-3.3.5, fftw-openmpi-3.3.5,
fftwf-3.3.5, fftwf-3.3.5, file-5.28, file-roller-3.20.3, fish-2.4.0,
flashrom-0.9.9, flex-2.6.1, font-dejavu-2.37, font-gnu-unifont-9.0.02,
fontconfig-2.12.1, fossil-1.35, freefall-4.8.15, freeipmi-1.5.5,
fuse-exfat-1.2.5, gajim-0.16.6, gambit-c-4.8.5, ganv-1.4.2-1.31685d283,
gawk-4.1.4, gcc-4.9.4, gcc-5.4.0, gcc-6.2.0, gcc-objc++-4.9.4, gcc-objc-4.9.4,
gcc-stripped-tarball-4.9.4, gcc-toolchain-6.2.0, gccgo-4.9.4, gcj-4.9.4,
gdb-7.12, gedit-3.20.2, geiser-0.9, geiser-next-0.9, geoclue-2.4.4,
gettext-0.19.8.1, gexiv2-0.10.4, gfortran-5.4.0, ghc-8.0.1, ghc-cmark-0.5.3.1,
ghc-cryptonite-0.19, ghc-fgl-5.5.3.0, ghc-highlighting-kate-0.6.3,
ghc-pandoc-1.17.2, ghc-pandoc-types-1.16.1.1, ghc-tagsoup-0.14,
ghc-texmath-0.8.6.5, ghc-tls-1.3.8, ghc-trifecta-1.6, giac-xcas-1.2.2-103,
gimp-2.8.18, girara-0.2.6, git-2.11.0, git-2.9.3, glew-2.0.0, glib-2.48.2,
glib-networking-2.48.2, glibc-2.23, glibc-2.24, glibc-locales-2.24,
glibc-utf8-locales-2.24, global-6.5.5, gmp-6.1.1, gmsh-2.15.0, gnome-3.20.4,
gnome-bluetooth-3.20.0, gnome-desktop-3.20.2, gnome-klotski-3.20.2,
gnome-maps-3.18.3, gnome-mines-3.20.1, gnome-mpv-0.10,
gnome-online-accounts-3.20.3, gnome-screenshot-3.20.1, gnome-session-3.20.2,
gnome-shell-3.20.4, gnome-sudoku-3.20.5, gnome-terminal-3.20.2,
gnome-themes-standard-3.20.2, gnu-c-manual-0.2.5, gnucash-2.6.14,
gnumach-headers-1.8, gnumeric-1.12.32, gnupg-1.4.21, gnupg-2.0.30,
gnupg-2.1.16, gnuplot-5.0.5, gnurl-7.51.0, gnutls-3.5.4, go-1.7.4,
goffice-0.10.32, gphoto2-2.5.11, graphicsmagick-1.3.25-1.56c8cae, gsl-2.3,
gst-libav-1.10.2, gst-plugins-bad-1.10.2, gst-plugins-base-1.10.2,
gst-plugins-good-1.10.2, gst-plugins-ugly-1.10.2, gstreamer-1.10.2,
gtk+-3.20.9, gtk-doc-1.25, gtk-vnc-0.6.0, gtkmm-3.20.1, gtksourceview-3.20.4,
guile-2.0.12, guile-daemon-0.1.1, guile-irregex-0.9.6, guile-lib-0.2.3,
guile-ncurses-2.1, guile-next-2.1.5, guile-ssh-0.10.2,
guile-static-stripped-2.0.12, guile-static-stripped-tarball-2.0.12,
guile-xosd-0.2.1, guitarix-0.35.2, guix-0.11.0, guix-0.11.0-8.8d12,
gvfs-1.28.3, gvpe-3.0, gzochi-0.10.1, harfbuzz-1.3.3, haskell-mode-16.1,
hdf5-1.8.18, hdf5-parallel-openmpi-1.8.18, hexchat-2.12.2, higan-101,
hop-2.5.1, hplip-3.16.11, httping-2.5, hunspell-1.5.4, hurd-core-headers-0.9,
hurd-headers-0.9, hurd-minimal-0.9, hydra-20151030.1ff48da, hydrogen-0.9.7,
i3-wm-4.13, ibus-1.5.14, icecat-45.5.1-gnu1, icedtea-3.2.0, idris-0.12.3,
imagemagick-6.9.6-8, info-reader-6.3, inputproto-2.3.2, iproute2-4.9.0,
irrlicht-1.8.4, irssi-0.8.20, isc-dhcp-4.3.5, iw-4.9, jansson-2.9,
jasper-2.0.6, java-ngs-1.2.5, jbig2dec-0.13, jpegoptim-1.4.4, json-c-0.12.1,
json-glib-1.2.2, julia-0.5.0, keepassx-2.0.3, khal-0.8.4,
kwindowsystem-5.28.0, ldb-1.1.27, ldc-0.17.2, ledger-3.1.1, letsencrypt-0.9.3,
lftp-4.7.4, libass-0.13.4, libcdio-0.94, libdrm-2.4.68, libev-4.23,
libgcrypt-1.7.3, libgit2-0.24.3, libgpg-error-1.24, libgphoto2-2.5.11,
libgsf-1.14.40, libgtop-2.34.1, libgweather-3.20.3, libiberty-4.9.4,
libidn-1.33, libinput-1.5.1, libinput-minimal-1.5.1, libjpeg-9b,
libksba-1.3.5, libmateweather-1.16.1, libmicrohttpd-0.9.52, libmikmod-3.3.10,
libpng-1.6.25, libpsl-0.16.1, libraw-0.17.2, libraw1394-2.1.2, librecad-2.1.3,
libreoffice-5.1.5.2, libressl-2.5.0, librsvg-2.40.16, libsigc++-2.10.0,
libsodium-1.0.11, libsoup-2.56.0, libstdc++-4.9.4, libstdc++-doc-5.4.0,
libtasn1-4.9, libtiff-4.0.7, libuninameslist-20160701, libupnp-1.6.20,
libva-1.7.1, libvpx-1.6.0, libwebp-0.5.1, libwnck-3.20.1, libx11-1.6.4,
libx264-20161205-2245, libxcb-1.11.1, libxfixes-5.0.3, libxfont-1.5.2,
libxi-1.7.8, libxmp-4.4.1, libxrandr-1.5.1, libxrender-0.9.10, libxtst-1.2.3,
libxv-1.0.11, libxvmc-1.0.10, lilv-0.22.0, lilypond-2.19.51, links-2.14,
linux-libre-4.4.39, linux-libre-4.8.15, linux-libre-headers-4.4.18,
linux-pam-1.3.0, llvm-3.6.2, llvm-3.7.1, llvm-3.7.1, llvm-3.8.1,
lm-sensors-3.4.0, love-0.10.2, lrzip-0.631, lua-5.3.3, lv2-1.14.0,
lvm2-2.02.166, lynx-2.8.9dev.9, mafft-7.305, magit-2.8.0, mailutils-3.0,
make-4.2.1, man-pages-4.09, manaplus-1.6.8.14, mariadb-10.1.19,
mate-desktop-1.16.1, mate-icon-theme-1.16.0, mate-menus-1.16.0,
mate-themes-3.20.9, maxima-5.39.0, mercurial-3.9, mesa-13.0.2,
mesa-headers-13.0.2, metabat-0.32.4-1.cbdca756, mig-1.8, miniupnpc-2.0,
mit-krb5-1.14.3, mosh-1.2.6, mozjs-24.2.0, mpd-0.19.19, mpd-mpc-0.28,
mpg123-1.23.8, mpg321-0.3.2, mpv-0.22.0, mumps-5.0.2, mumps-metis-5.0.2,
mumps-metis-openmpi-5.0.2, mumps-openmpi-5.0.2, mupdf-1.10a, mutt-1.7.1,
mutter-3.20.3, mysql-5.7.16, nano-2.7.2, nasm-2.12.02, nautilus-3.20.2,
ncbi-vdb-2.7.0, ncdu-1.12, ncmpc-0.25, ncmpcpp-0.7.7, nestopia-ue-1.47,
netcdf-4.4.1.1, netcdf-parallel-openmpi-4.4.1.1, nettle-3.2,
network-manager-1.4.2, network-manager-applet-1.4.2, nginx-1.11.6,
ngs-sdk-1.2.5, nmap-7.31, node-6.8.0, non-sequencer-1.9.5-2.a22f33f,
notmuch-0.23.3, npth-1.3, nss-3.27.2, nss-certs-3.27.2, ntp-4.2.8p9,
obs-0.16.6, octave-4.2.0, offlineimap-7.0.12, opam-1.2.2, openal-1.17.2,
openblas-0.2.19, openconnect-7.08, openjpeg-2.1.1, openssh-7.4p1,
openssl-1.0.2j, openssl-1.1.0c, opusfile-0.8, orc-0.4.26, orfm-0.6.1,
owncloud-client-2.2.4, oxygen-icons-5.28.0, p11-kit-0.23.2, pangomm-2.40.1,
parallel-20161122, pardre-1.1.5-1, pciutils-3.5.2, perf-4.8.15, perl-5.24.0,
perl-apache-logformat-compiler-0.33, perl-catalyst-action-rest-1.20,
perl-catalyst-plugin-accesslog-1.10, perl-catalyst-plugin-session-0.40,
perl-catalyst-view-json-0.36, perl-catalyst-view-tt-0.44, perl-cgi-4.35,
perl-class-method-modifiers-2.12, perl-dbd-mysql-4.041, perl-dbd-sqlite-1.52,
perl-dbix-class-0.082840, perl-dbix-class-cursor-cached-1.001004,
perl-dbix-class-introspectablem2m-0.001002,
perl-dbix-class-schema-loader-0.07046, perl-email-address-1.908,
perl-email-messageid-1.406, perl-email-mime-1.937,
perl-email-mime-contenttype-1.018, perl-email-sender-1.300028,
perl-email-simple-2.211, perl-encode-locale-1.05, perl-eval-closure-0.14,
perl-finance-quote-1.38, perl-html-parser-3.72, perl-http-body-1.22,
perl-http-cookiejar-0.008, perl-http-message-6.11,
perl-http-server-simple-0.51, perl-http-tiny-0.070, perl-io-socket-ssl-2.038,
perl-libwww-6.15, perl-module-build-0.4220, perl-namespace-autoclean-0.28,
perl-test-mockobject-1.20150527, perl-test-simple-1.302062,
perl-unicode-linebreak-2016.003, perl-xml-compile-1.54,
perl-xml-compile-cache-1.05, perl-xml-compile-soap-3.20,
perl-xml-compile-wsdl11-3.05, perl-xml-dom-1.46, perl-xml-libxml-simple-0.97,
pies-1.3, pinentry-1.0.0, pinentry-gtk2-1.0.0, pinentry-qt-1.0.0,
pinentry-tty-1.0.0, poppler-0.47.0, poppler-qt4-0.47.0, poppler-qt5-0.47.0,
postgresql-9.5.5, privoxy-3.0.26, procps-3.3.12, pulseaudio-9.0, python-3.4.5,
python-3.5.2, python-acme-0.9.3, python-beautifulsoup4-4.5.1,
python-billiard-3.3.0.23, python-biopython-1.68, python-botocore-1.4.62,
python-celery-3.1.24, python-certifi-2016.8.31, python-cryptography-1.7.1,
python-cryptography-vectors-1.7.1, python-cython-0.24.1,
python-dateutil-2.5.2, python-dnspython-1.15.0, python-docutils-0.13.1,
python-efl-1.18.0, python-fake-factory-0.7.2, python-file-5.28,
python-flake8-2.5.4, python-flask-0.11.1, python-gst-1.10.2,
python-html5lib-1.0b10, python-icalendar-3.11, python-ipython-4.0.3,
python-jellyfish-0.5.6, python-joblib-0.10.3, python-kombu-3.0.37,
python-llfuse-1.1.1, python-mccabe-0.4.0, python-minimal-3.5.2,
python-minimal-wrapper-3.5.2, python-msgpack-0.4.8, python-munkres-1.0.8,
python-musicbrainzngs-0.6, python-mutagen-1.35.1, python-os-testr-0.8.0,
python-passlib-1.7.0, python-pillow-3.3.3, python-plastid-0.4.6,
python-prompt-toolkit-1.0.7, python-py3status-3.1, python-pyasn1-0.1.9,
python-pyflakes-1.0.0, python-pylast-1.6.0, python-pyld-0.7.1,
python-pyopenssl-16.2.0, python-pyqt-5.7, python-pysam-0.9.1.4,
python-pytest-2.9.2, python-rarfile-2.8, python-requests-mock-1.0.0,
python-rsa-3.4.2, python-setuptools-31.0.0, python-simplejson-3.10.0,
python-sip-4.18.1, python-tempest-lib-1.0.0, python-traitlets-4.2.0,
python-twobitreader-3.1.4, python-urllib3-1.18.1, python-urwid-1.3.1,
python-urwidtrees-1.0.2, python-vcversioner-2.16.0.0,
python-virtualenv-15.0.3, python-waf-1.9.5, python-werkzeug-0.11.11,
python-wrapper-3.5.2, python-xlrd-1.0.0, python2-acme-0.9.3,
python2-beautifulsoup4-4.5.1, python2-billiard-3.3.0.23,
python2-biopython-1.68, python2-botocore-1.4.62, python2-celery-3.1.24,
python2-certifi-2016.8.31, python2-cryptography-1.7.1,
python2-cryptography-vectors-1.7.1, python2-cython-0.24.1,
python2-dateutil-2.5.2, python2-dnspython-1.15.0, python2-docutils-0.13.1,
python2-efl-1.18.0, python2-fake-factory-0.7.2, python2-file-5.28,
python2-flake8-2.5.4, python2-flask-0.11.1, python2-gst-1.10.2,
python2-html5lib-1.0b10, python2-ipaddress-1.0.16, python2-ipython-4.0.3,
python2-jellyfish-0.5.6, python2-joblib-0.10.3, python2-kombu-3.0.37,
python2-llfuse-1.1.1, python2-mccabe-0.4.0, python2-msgpack-0.4.8,
python2-munkres-1.0.8, python2-musicbrainzngs-0.6, python2-mutagen-1.35.1,
python2-notmuch-0.23.3, python2-os-testr-0.8.0, python2-passlib-1.7.0,
python2-pbcore-1.2.10, python2-pep8-1.7.0, python2-pillow-3.3.3,
python2-plastid-0.4.6, python2-prompt-toolkit-1.0.7, python2-pyasn1-0.1.9,
python2-pyflakes-1.0.0, python2-pylast-1.6.0, python2-pyld-0.7.1,
python2-pyopenssl-16.2.0, python2-pyqt-5.7, python2-pysam-0.9.1.4,
python2-rarfile-2.8, python2-requests-mock-1.0.0, python2-rsa-3.4.2,
python2-setuptools-31.0.0, python2-simplejson-3.10.0, python2-sip-4.18.1,
python2-tempest-lib-1.0.0, python2-traitlets-4.2.0,
python2-twobitreader-3.1.4, python2-urllib3-1.18.1, python2-urwid-1.3.1,
python2-urwidtrees-1.0.2, python2-vcversioner-2.16.0.0,
python2-virtualenv-15.0.3, python2-waf-1.9.5, python2-werkzeug-0.11.11,
python2-xlrd-1.0.0, qemu-2.7.0, qemu-minimal-2.7.0, qpdf-6.0.0, qsynth-0.4.3,
qt-5.6.2, qtbase-5.7.0, qtconnectivity-5.7.0, qtdeclarative-5.7.0,
qtimageformats-5.7.0, qtlocation-5.7.0, qtmultimedia-5.7.0, qtractor-0.8.0,
qtscript-5.7.0, qtsensors-5.7.0, qtserialport-5.7.0, qtsvg-5.7.0,
qttools-5.7.0, qtwayland-5.7.0, qtwebchannel-5.7.0, qtwebsockets-5.7.0,
qtx11extras-5.7.0, qtxmlpatterns-5.7.0, r-3.3.2, r-acepack-1.4.1,
r-acsnminer-0.16.8.25, r-annotationdbi-1.36.0, r-biobase-2.34.0,
r-biocgenerics-0.20.0, r-biocparallel-1.8.1, r-biomart-2.30.0,
r-biostrings-2.42.0, r-bsgenome-1.42.0, r-cluster-2.0.5, r-codetools-0.2-15,
r-colorspace-1.2-7, r-crayon-1.3.2, r-curl-2.2, r-dbi-0.5-1,
r-devtools-1.12.0, r-digest-0.6.10, r-dnacopy-1.48.0, r-dplyr-0.5.0, r-dt-0.2,
r-edger-3.16.1, r-evaluate-0.10, r-foreign-0.8-67, r-futile-logger-1.4.3,
r-gdtools-0.1.1, r-genomation-1.6.0, r-genomationdata-1.6.0,
r-genomeinfodb-1.10.0, r-genomicalignments-1.10.0, r-genomicfeatures-1.26.0,
r-genomicranges-1.26.1, r-go-db-3.4.0, r-graph-1.52.0, r-htmlwidgets-0.7,
r-httr-1.2.1, r-impute-1.48.0, r-iranges-2.8.0, r-irlba-2.1.2, r-jsonlite-1.1,
r-knitr-1.14, r-lambda-r-1.1.9, r-lattice-0.20-34, r-lazyeval-0.2.0,
r-limma-3.30.2, r-matrixstats-0.51.0, r-mgcv-1.8-15, r-mime-0.5,
r-motifrg-1.18.0, r-multitaper-1.0-12, r-openssl-0.9.5, r-org-ce-eg-db-3.4.0,
r-org-dm-eg-db-3.4.0, r-org-hs-eg-db-3.4.0, r-org-mm-eg-db-3.4.0,
r-permute-0.9-4, r-plotly-4.5.2, r-plotrix-3.6-3, r-plyr-1.8.4,
r-pracma-1.9.5, r-proto-1.0.0, r-r-oo-1.21.0, r-r-utils-2.4.0, r-r6-2.2.0,
r-rcpp-0.12.7, r-rcpparmadillo-0.7.500.0.0, r-readr-1.0.0, r-reshape2-1.4.2,
r-rmarkdown-1.1, r-rsamtools-1.26.1, r-rstudioapi-0.6, r-rtracklayer-1.34.1,
r-rversions-1.0.3, r-s4vectors-0.12.0, r-seqinr-3.3-3, r-seqlogo-1.40.0,
r-seqpattern-1.6.0, r-snow-0.4-2, r-sparsem-1.72, r-stringi-1.1.2,
r-stringr-1.1.0, r-summarizedexperiment-1.4.0, r-tidyr-0.6.0, r-topgo-2.26.0,
r-variantannotation-1.20.0, r-vegan-2.4-1, r-withr-1.0.2, r-xml2-1.0.0,
r-xvector-0.14.0, r-zlibbioc-1.20.0, racket-6.6, rage-0.2.1,
raul-0.8.4-1.f8bf77d3c, readline-7.0, red-eclipse-1.5.6, redis-3.2.4,
retroarch-1.3.6, rhythmbox-3.4, rofi-1.2.0, ruby-2.1.10, ruby-2.2.6,
ruby-2.3.3, ruby-activesupport-5.0.0, ruby-arel-7.1.4,
ruby-cucumber-core-1.5.0, ruby-domain-name-0.5.20161021, ruby-hoe-3.15.2,
ruby-http-cookie-1.0.3, ruby-lumberjack-1.0.10,
ruby-mime-types-data-3.2016.0521, ruby-puma-3.6.0, ruby-rack-2.0.1,
ruby-rake-compiler-1.0.1, ruby-rspec-3.5.0, ruby-rspec-core-3.5.4,
ruby-rspec-expectations-3.5.0, ruby-rspec-mocks-3.5.0, ruby-sdoc-0.4.2,
ruby-sequel-4.40.0, ruby-shoulda-context-1.2.2, ruby-simplecov-0.12.0,
ruby-spring-1.7.2, ruby-sqlite3-1.3.12, ruby-tzinfo-data-1.2016.9,
ruby-yard-0.9.5-1.d816482a, rush-1.8, samba-4.5.3, samtools-1.3.1,
sane-backends-1.0.25, scribus-1.5.2, sdl2-2.0.5, serd-0.22.0,
shared-mime-info-1.7, shepherd-0.3.2, shotwell-0.25.0.1, signify-20,
simple-scan-3.22.0.1, slock-1.3, sord-0.14.0, sqlite-3.14.1, sqlite-3.15.1,
sra-tools-2.7.0, st-0.7, star-2.5.2b, starfighter-1.6, subread-1.5.1,
subversion-1.8.17, supertux-0.5.0, swig-3.0.10, synergy-1.8.2, synthv1-0.8.0,
taglib-1.10, talloc-2.1.8, tbb-2017_20160916, tdb-1.3.11, termite-12,
tevent-0.9.31, texinfo-6.3, thefuck-3.11, tig-2.2, tilda-1.3.3, tiled-0.17.0,
tmux-2.3, tor-0.2.9.8, torsocks-2.2.0, transmission-2.92, tuxguitar-1.3.2,
tzdata-2016j, udisks-2.1.8, usbredir-0.7.1-1.ac80a59, usbutils-008,
utf8proc-2.0.2, util-linux-2.28.1, vala-0.32.1, valgrind-3.12.0,
vapoursynth-35, vdirsyncer-0.14.0, videoproto-2.3.3, vim-8.0.0133,
vsearch-2.3.4, vte-0.44.2, vtk-7.1.0, w3m-0.5.3+git20161120,
warzone2100-3.2.1, webkitgtk-2.14.2, weechat-1.6, weex-2.8.2,
windowmaker-0.95.7, wine-1.9.24, wireless-regdb-2016.06.10, wireshark-2.2.2,
wpa-supplicant-2.6, wpa-supplicant-minimal-2.6, wxmaxima-16.12.0,
xapian-1.4.1, xboard-4.9.1, xf86-input-evdev-2.10.4,
xf86-input-joystick-1.6.3, xf86-input-keyboard-1.9.0,
xf86-input-libinput-0.23.0, xf86-input-mouse-1.9.2,
xf86-input-synaptics-1.9.0, xf86-video-ati-7.8.0, xf86-video-nouveau-1.0.13,
xf86-video-openchrome-0.5.0, xkbcomp-1.3.1, xkeyboard-config-2.18, xmp-4.1.0,
xorg-server-1.18.4, xorriso-1.4.6, xproto-7.0.29, yoshimi-1.5.0,
youtube-dl-2016.12.15, zathura-0.3.6, zathura-cb-0.1.5, zathura-djvu-0.2.5,
zathura-pdf-poppler-0.2.6, zathura-ps-0.2.3, zile-2.4.13, zimg-2.3,
zynaddsubfx-3.0.1

** Programming interfaces

*** New procedure ‘package-for-guile-2.2’ for Guile package variants
*** New ‘package-input-rewriting’ customization procedure in (guix packages)
*** New ‘deprecated-package’ procedure in (guix packages)
*** New ‘file-append’ procedure in (guix gexp)
*** New (guix modules) module, to determine the closure of a Guile module
*** ‘wrap-program’ from (guix utils) now produces only one wrapper file.

** Noteworthy bug fixes

*** ‘ld-wrapper’ no longer aborts if Guile 2.2 modules are in the search path
*** ‘guix system reconfigure’ no longer unloads services depended on
*** GuixSD ‘menu-entry’ can specify arbitrary kernel and initrd file names
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/20067>)
*** Fix typo in device-opening code for ‘raid-device-type’
*** Grafts are applied to replacement packages (<http://bugs.gnu.org/24418>)
*** guix-daemon does not fail when deduplicating would lead to ENOSPC
*** ‘guix download’ now checks X.509 certificates by default (<http://bugs.gnu.org/24466>)
*** Avoid bootstrapping issue for HTTPS downloads (<http://bugs.gnu.org/22774>)
*** Failed build directories are owned by the user to ease debugging (<http://bugs.gnu.org/15890>)
*** Significantly reduced the closure of Perl (<http://bugs.gnu.org/23077>)
*** Fixed importer for Nixpkgs (<http://bugs.gnu.org/25053>)

** Native language support

Updated translations: da (Danish), pl (Polish), de (German), pt_BR (Portuguese, Brazil), and fr (French).

* Changes in 0.11.0 (since 0.10.0)

** Package management

*** Substitute display adjusts to client locale and terminal width
*** New ‘--free-space’ option for ‘guix gc’
*** ‘guix gc’ shows the amount of disk space freed
*** Source code downloads fall back to content-addressed mirrors
*** ‘guix graph’ can now be passed a store file name
*** Building the profile is faster, noticeably so on slow file systems
*** Profiles now include XDG desktop and MIME databases
*** ‘guix size’ can be passed more than one package
*** ‘--check’ and ‘--rounds’ save the differing build output upon failure
*** New Emacs interface for package locations: M-x guix-locations

See “Package Source Locations” in the manual.
*** Emacs modes show the full profile name in buffer names
*** Emacs “Package Info” buffer now have a “Build Log” button
*** ‘guix environment’ sets $GUIX_ENVIRONMENT to the environment’s profile
*** New ‘--ttl’ option for ‘guix publish’
*** New ‘--compression’ option for ‘guix publish’
*** ‘guix publish’ serves source files over content-address “/file” URLs
*** New ‘hackage’ updater for ‘guix refresh’
*** ‘guix lint -c cve’ uses a faster caching method
*** ‘guix lint -c cve’ now reports up to 3-year-old vulnerabilities
*** ‘guix lint -c source,home-page’ reports suspiciously small HTTP replies
*** ‘guix lint -c inputs-should-be-native’ makes more suggestions

** Distribution

*** New services

urandom-seed-service, dicod-service, gc-root-service-type, mcron-service,
rngd-service, dropbear-service, pam-limits-service (See “Services” in the
manual for details.)

*** ‘mapped-device’ can refer to partitions using a LUKS UUID
*** New ‘raid-device-type’, for RAID devices using mdadm
*** ‘console-keymap-service’ can be given several file names
*** Java package names are now prefixed with “java-”
*** New modular Qt packages, to replace the monolithic ‘qt’ package
*** The ‘gnupg’ 2.0/2.1 packages provide the ‘gpg’ command instead of ‘gpg2’
*** Packages whose build output were not bit-reproducible have been fixed

fontforge, libxslt, nasm, openmpi, petsc, vlc

*** 484 new packages

4store, 4ti2, acpi, alot, amsynth, anthy, antiword, aqbanking, arc-icon-theme,
arc-theme, argon2, aria-maestosa, asciinema, autoconf-archive, avr-binutils,
avr-gcc, avr-gcc, avr-toolchain, avr-toolchain, awesome, bash-tap, beast,
bits, brotli, c-graph, cabextract, cddlib, ceres-solver, certbot, cgit,
chez-scheme, chromium-bsu, connman, cpupower, dfu-util, di, dia, diction,
dillo, doc++, dstat, eigensoft, elixir, emacs-ace-window, emacs-avy,
emacs-better-defaults, emacs-cider, emacs-clojure-mode, emacs-company,
emacs-ebuild-mode, emacs-el-mock, emacs-elfeed, emacs-emms,
emacs-emms-player-mpv, emacs-epl, emacs-eprime, emacs-espuds, emacs-ess,
emacs-expand-region, emacs-ffap-rfc-space, emacs-fill-column-indicator,
emacs-helm, emacs-hl-todo, emacs-hydra, emacs-ido-completing-read+,
emacs-ido-ubiquitous, emacs-iedit, emacs-ivy, emacs-js2-mode, emacs-lispy,
emacs-lua-mode, emacs-magit-popup, emacs-markdown-mode, emacs-minimal,
emacs-multiple-cursors, emacs-org-bullets, emacs-page-break-lines,
emacs-paren-face, emacs-perspective, emacs-pkg-info, emacs-projectile,
emacs-queue, emacs-rainbow-delimiters, emacs-rainbow-identifiers,
emacs-rfcview, emacs-rich-minority, emacs-seq, emacs-shell-switcher,
emacs-shut-up, emacs-simple-httpd, emacs-skewer-mode, emacs-smart-mode-line,
emacs-smartparens, emacs-smex, emacs-solarized-theme, emacs-spinner,
emacs-tagedit, emacs-undercover, emacs-visual-fill-column, emacs-web-mode,
emacs-writegood-mode, emacs-yaml-mode, emacs-zenburn-theme, emacs-znc, emboss,
encfs, entr, envstore, erlang, filevercmp, folks, font-fantasque-sans,
font-hack, fossil, gcc-ddc, gcc-ddc, gcide, geiser-next, gengetopt, gfbgraph,
gflags, ghc-aeson-pretty, ghc-concatenative, ghc-indents, ghc-union-find,
ghc-wl-pprint, ghmm, ghostscript-gs, ghostscript-gs-with-x, giac-xcas,
gimp-fourier, glog, gmp-ecm, gnome-calendar, gnome-maps, gnome-mpv,
gnome-shell-extensions, gnome-sudoku, gnome-tweak-tool, gnu-standards, go, go,
googletest, gptfdisk, gtkspell3, guile-daemon, guile-dbd-sqlite3, guile-dbi,
guile-gnome, guile-sqlite3, guile-xosd, gwenhywfar, h5check, haveged,
hdf5-parallel-openmpi, hexedit, higan, hplip, httping, hurd-core-headers,
hypre, hypre-openmpi, ibus-anthy, iodine, ipopt, java-hamcrest-core,
java-htsjdk, java-jarjar, java-junit, java-ngs, java-qdox, java-swt, java-xz,
jq, khmer, krona-tools, lbzip2, libbsd, libgames-support, libgnomekbd,
libharu, libhilbert, libiax2, libiconv, libinput-minimal, librdkafka,
libsmpeg, libzapojit, log4cpp, lrzip, macchanger, maim, marst, matio, mcron2,
midicsv, milkytracker, mitlm, moc, moka-icon-theme, mpfi, msgpack, multiqc,
muscle, nasm, netcdf, netcdf-parallel-openmpi, nlopt, nmap, ntfs-3g, ntl,
oniguruma, opendht, openttd, orage, pardre, perceptualdiff, perl-config-ini,
perl-db-file, perl-file-zglob, perl-guard, perl-io-captureoutput,
perl-ipc-system-simple, perl-list-compare, perl-list-someutils, perl-log-any,
perl-log-any-adapter-log4perl, perl-log-log4perl, perl-mixin-linewise,
perl-perlio-utf8-strict, perl-test-class, perl-test-class-most, perltidy,
pinentry-gtk2, pinentry-qt, pinentry-tty, piranha, poppler-qt5, portmidi,
progress, ptpython, ptpython2, python-arrow, python-bz2file, python-chai,
python-cleo, python-cysignals, python-dendropy, python-dnspython,
python-email-validator, python-fake-factory, python-flexmock, python-gevent,
python-greenlet, python-inflection, python-jedi, python-kazoo,
python-lazy-object-proxy, python-magic, python-orator, python-pkgconfig,
python-plastid, python-ply, python-prompt-toolkit, python-protobuf,
python-py3status, python-pyaml, python-pygame, python-pykafka, python-pylev,
python-pyportmidi, python-pyusb, python-screed, python-sqlparse,
python-tables, python-tabulate, python-tblib, python-twisted,
python-twobitreader, python-ukpostcodeparser, python-urwidtrees,
python-wcwidth, python2-arrow, python2-bz2file, python2-chai, python2-cleo,
python2-cysignals, python2-dendropy, python2-dnspython,
python2-email-validator, python2-fake-factory, python2-flexmock,
python2-gevent, python2-greenlet, python2-inflection, python2-ipaddr,
python2-jedi, python2-jsonrpclib, python2-kazoo, python2-lazy-object-proxy,
python2-magic, python2-orator, python2-pkgconfig, python2-plastid,
python2-ply, python2-prompt-toolkit, python2-protobuf, python2-pyaml,
python2-pykafka, python2-pylev, python2-pytest-cache, python2-pyusb,
python2-rope, python2-s3cmd, python2-screed, python2-shedskin,
python2-sqlparse, python2-tables, python2-tabulate, python2-tblib,
python2-twisted, python2-twobitreader, python2-ukpostcodeparser,
python2-urwidtrees, python2-wcwidth, qqwing, qtbase, qtconnectivity,
qtdeclarative, qtimageformats, qtlocation, qtmultimedia, qtscript, qtsensors,
qtserialport, qtsvg, qttools, qtwayland, qtwebchannel, qtwebsockets,
qtx11extras, qtxmlpatterns, quesoglc, r-acepack, r-ade4, r-biased-urn,
r-bsgenome-celegans-ucsc-ce6, r-bsgenome-dmelanogaster-ucsc-dm3,
r-bsgenome-hsapiens-ucsc-hg19, r-bsgenome-mmusculus-ucsc-mm10,
r-bsgenome-mmusculus-ucsc-mm9, r-cluster, r-coda, r-domc, r-edger,
r-estimability, r-foreign, r-formula, r-gdtools, r-genomationdata, r-glmnet,
r-hexbin, r-igraph, r-irlba, r-knitrbootstrap, r-latticeextra, r-limma,
r-locfit, r-mgcv, r-motifrg, r-multitaper, r-mvtnorm, r-nmf, r-nnet,
r-openssl, r-permute, r-pkgmaker, r-pracma, r-praise, r-registry, r-rngtools,
r-runit, r-seqinr, r-seqlogo, r-svglite, r-tidyr, r-variantannotation,
r-vegan, r-withr, r-xnomial, r-xtable, r-zlibbioc, r-zoo, r-ztable, rapicorn,
recordmydesktop, red-eclipse, reposurgeon, reptyr, ribotaper, ristretto,
rlwrap, rng-tools, rofi, ruby-bio-kseq, ruby-concurrent, ruby-debug-inspector,
ruby-hoe-git, ruby-minitest-hooks, ruby-pkg-config, ruby-puma, ruby-sequel,
ruby-spring, ruby-timecop, ruby-tzinfo-data, s6, s6-dns, s6-linux-utils,
s6-networking, s6-portable-utils, s6-rc, sbc, scrollkeeper, seek, seren, sicp,
signify, singular, slop, slurm-drmaa, sparql-query, spice, spice-gtk,
spice-protocol, spice-vdagent, ssdeep, sshpass, starfighter, stellarium,
supertux, surf, synthv1, tcc, tcc-wrapper, teensy-loader-cli, termite,
texmaker, thefuck, thinkfan, tmux-themepack, trash-cli, trio, ttf2eot,
ttfautohint, tuxpaint, tuxpaint-config, tuxpaint-stamps, uhttpmock, usbredir,
utfcpp, uwsgi, virglrenderer, virt-viewer, vte-ng, warzone2100, wiredtiger,
wireshark, wmbattery, wmclock, wmcpuload, wmfire, wmnd, woff-tools, woff2,
woof, xdelta, xdpyprobe, xf86-video-qxl, xfce4-taskmanager, xfd, xfontsel,
xorg-rgb, xscreensaver, zimg

*** 678 package updates

abduco-0.6, abiword-3.0.1, adwaita-icon-theme-3.20, aisleriot-3.20.1,
allegro-5.0.11, allegro-5.2.0, american-fuzzy-lop-2.15b, ansible-2.1.0.0,
arandr-0.1.9, aria2-1.25.0, armadillo-6.700.6, armadillo-6.700.7,
asymptote-2.38, at-spi2-atk-2.20.1, at-spi2-core-2.20.1, atk-2.20.0,
autoconf-2.68, autoconf-2.69, autogen-5.18.10, avidemux-2.6.12,
avr-libc-2.0.0, baobab-3.20.1, bdb-5.3.28, bdb-6.2.23, bedtools-2.26.0,
beets-1.3.19, behave-1.2.5, bind-utils-9.10.4, bison-3.0.4,
bitcoin-core-0.12.1, bitlbee-3.4.2, blast+-2.4.0, bluez-5.40, borg-1.0.6,
btrfs-progs-4.6.1, bundler-1.12.5, busybox-1.25.0, cairo-1.14.6,
calibre-2.63.0, caribou-0.4.20, ccache-3.2.5, ccl-1.11, cflow-1.5, cgal-4.8.1,
check-0.10.0, chicken-4.11.0, clang-3.7.1, clang-3.8.1, clang-runtime-3.5.2,
clang-runtime-3.6.2, clang-runtime-3.7.1, clang-runtime-3.8.1, clutter-1.26.0,
clutter-gst-3.0.18, clutter-gtk-1.8.0, cmake-3.5.2, conky-1.10.3,
coreutils-8.25, coreutils-minimal-8.25, dbus-1.10.8, dconf-0.26.0,
dconf-editor-3.20.1, dealii-8.4.1, dealii-openmpi-8.4.1, devhelp-3.20.0,
diamond-0.8.17, diffoscope-54, dmidecode-3.0, dnsmasq-2.76, docbook-xml-4.3,
docbook-xml-4.4, docbook-xml-4.5, dosfstools-4.0, dovecot-2.2.25,
dropbear-2016.73, dtach-0.9, ecl-16.1.2, ed-1.13, edirect-4.10, efl-1.17.2,
eigen-3.2.8, elementary-1.17.1, elfutils-0.166, emacs-async-1.9,
emacs-constants-2.6, emacs-flycheck-28, emacs-slime-2.18,
emacs-with-editor-2.5.1, enblend-enfuse-4.2, enlightenment-0.21.1, eog-3.20.1,
epiphany-3.20.1, evince-3.20.0, evolution-data-server-3.20.1,
execline-2.1.5.0, exempi-2.3.0, exim-4.87, exiv2-0.25, expat-2.1.1,
extra-cmake-modules-5.21.0, eyed3-0.7.9, fasttree-2.1.9, ffmpeg-2.8.7,
ffmpeg-3.1.1, file-roller-3.20.1, fish-2.3.1, font-dejavu-2.35,
font-gnu-freefont-ttf-20120503, font-gnu-unifont-9.0.01, fontforge-20160404,
freefall-4.7, freeipmi-1.5.2, freetype-2.6.3, frescobaldi-2.19.0, fuse-2.9.6,
fvwm-2.6.6, gcc-6.1.0, gcc-objc++-4.9.3, gcc-objc-4.9.3, gcc-toolchain-6.1.0,
gcr-3.20.0, gd-2.2.3, gdb-7.11.1, gdbm-1.12, gdk-pixbuf+svg-2.34.0,
gdk-pixbuf-2.34.0, gdm-3.20.1, geda-gaf-1.9.2, gedit-3.20.1, geeqie-1.3,
geoclue-2.4.3, geocode-glib-3.20.1, getmail-4.49.0, gettext-0.19.8,
ghc-memory-0.13, giflib-5.1.4, gimp-2.8.16, git-2.9.2, git-manpages-2.9.2,
git-modes-1.2.2, glade-3.20.0, glib-2.48.0, glib-networking-2.48.1,
glibc-2.23, glibc-hurd-2.19, glibc-hurd-headers-2.19, glibc-locales-2.23,
glibc-stripped-tarball-2.23, glibc-utf8-locales-2.23, glibmm-2.48.1,
global-6.5.4, glpk-4.60, gmp-6.1.0, gnome-3.20.1, gnome-backgrounds-3.20,
gnome-bluetooth-3.18.3, gnome-control-center-3.20.1, gnome-desktop-3.20.1,
gnome-keyring-3.20.0, gnome-klotski-3.20.1, gnome-mines-3.20.0,
gnome-online-accounts-3.20.1, gnome-session-3.20.1,
gnome-settings-daemon-3.20.1, gnome-shell-3.20.1, gnome-terminal-3.20.1,
gnome-themes-standard-3.20, gnu-pw-mgr-2.0, gnucash-2.6.12,
gnumach-headers-1.7, gnumeric-1.12.28, gnupg-2.1.13, gnuplot-5.0.4-1,
gnurl-7.48.0, gnutls-3.5.2, gobject-introspection-1.48.0, goffice-0.10.28,
gom-0.3.2, graphicsmagick-1.3.24, graphite2-1.3.8, grep-2.25, grilo-0.3.0,
grilo-plugins-0.3.1, grub-2.02beta3, gsettings-desktop-schemas-3.20.0,
gst-libav-1.8.2, gst-plugins-base-1.8.2, gst-plugins-good-1.8.2,
gst-plugins-ugly-1.8.2, gstreamer-1.8.2, gtk+-2.24.30, gtk+-3.20.3,
gtkmm-3.20.1, gtksourceview-3.20.2, guile-irregex-0.9.4, guile-ncurses-1.7,
guile-next-2.1.3, guitarix-0.35.0, guix-0.10.0, guix-0.10.0-1.97c8,
gvfs-1.28.1, gzip-1.8, harfbuzz-1.2.4, haunt-0.2, hdf5-1.8.17,
help2man-1.47.4, hexchat-2.12.0, hoedown-3.0.7, htop-2.0.2, htslib-1.3.1,
httpd-2.4.23, hurd-headers-0.8, hurd-minimal-0.8, hwloc-1.11.2, i3-wm-4.12,
i3status-2.10, icecat-38.8.0-gnu2, icedtea-2.6.6, icedtea-3.0.1,
imagemagick-6.9.5-4, imlib2-1.4.9, iniparser-4.0, iptables-1.4.21,
irssi-0.8.19, isc-dhcp-4.3.4, iso-codes-3.67, iw-4.3, jemalloc-4.2.0,
json-glib-1.2.0, julia-0.4.5, kbd-2.0.3, khard-0.9.0, kmod-22,
kwindowsystem-5.21.0, ldb-1.1.26, ledger-3.1.1, letsencrypt-0.8.1,
libarchive-3.2.1, libassuan-2.4.3, libbluray-0.9.3, libchamplain-0.12.13,
libcroco-0.6.11, libcue-2.1.0, libdrm-2.4.67, libepoxy-1.3.1, libetpan-1.7.2,
libfm-1.2.4, libfm-extra-1.2.4, libgc-7.4.2, libgcrypt-1.7.0, libgit2-0.24.1,
libgpg-error-1.22, libgsf-1.14.36, libgtop-2.34.0, libgweather-3.20.0,
libical-2.0.0, libinput-1.4.0, libjpeg-9a, libksba-1.3.4, libmbim-1.12.4,
libmicrohttpd-0.9.50, libmtp-1.1.11, libndp-1.6, libpeas-1.18.0,
libpsl-0.13.0, libqmi-1.14.2, librecad-2.1.1, libreoffice-5.1.4.2,
libressl-2.4.2, librsvg-2.40.15, libsecret-0.18.5, libsigc++-2.8.0,
libsodium-1.0.10, libsoup-2.54.1, libsrtp-1.5.4, libtar-1.2.20, libtasn1-4.8,
libuv-1.9.0, libva-1.7.0, libwnck-3.14.1, libxkbcommon-0.6.1, libxml2-2.9.4,
libxslt-1.1.29, libyaml-0.1.6, linux-libre-4.1.29, linux-libre-4.4.16,
linux-libre-4.7, linux-libre-headers-4.1.18, lirc-0.9.4, llvm-3.7.1,
llvm-3.8.1, love-0.10.1, lua-5.2.4, luajit-2.0.4, lxappearance-0.6.2,
lxrandr-0.3.1, lxtask-0.1.7, mafft-7.299, magit-2.7.0, make-4.2, man-db-2.7.5,
man-pages-4.06, manaplus-1.6.6.4, mariadb-10.1.16, mc-4.8.16, mdadm-3.4,
menu-cache-1.0.1, mercurial-3.8.4, mesa-utils-8.3.0, metabat-0.26.3,
microscheme-0.9.3, mig-1.7, minetest-0.4.14, mit-krb5-1.14.2, mlt-6.2.0,
moreutils-0.58, mozjs-24.2.0, mpd-0.19.17, mpfr-3.1.4, mplayer-1.3.0,
mpv-0.18.0, msmtp-1.6.5, mtdev-1.1.5, mu-0.9.16, munge-0.5.12,
muparser-2.2.5-2, mutt-1.6.2, mutter-3.20.1, mysql-5.7.13, nautilus-3.20.1,
ncmpcpp-0.7.4, network-manager-1.2.0, network-manager-applet-1.2.0,
nginx-1.10.1, ninja-1.7.1, node-6.0.0, nspr-4.12, nss-3.23, nss-certs-3.23,
ntp-4.2.8p8, obs-0.15.1, octave-4.0.2, offlineimap-7.0.0, openimageio-1.6.15,
openjpeg-2.1.0, openldap-2.4.44, openlibm-0.5.1, openmpi-1.10.3,
openntpd-6.0p1, openspecfun-0.5.2, openssh-7.3p1, openssl-1.0.2h,
openvpn-2.3.9, opus-1.1.3, orcus-0.9.2, owncloud-client-2.2.2,
oxygen-icons-5.21.0, pango-1.40.1, pangomm-2.40.0, parallel-20160722,
pari-gp-2.7.6, pciutils-3.5.1, pcmanfm-1.2.4, pcre2-10.21, perf-4.7,
perl-dbd-mysql-4.035, perl-dbi-1.636, perl-devel-symdump-2.17,
perl-exporter-lite-0.08, perl-image-exiftool-10.20, perl-io-socket-ssl-2.033,
perl-test-deep-1.120, perl-test-harness-3.36, perl-test-simple-1.302026,
perl-text-diff-1.44, perl-uri-1.71, perl-xml-libxml-2.0128,
perl-xml-simple-2.22, petsc-3.7.2, petsc-complex-3.7.2,
petsc-complex-openmpi-3.7.2, petsc-openmpi-3.7.2, pidgin-2.11.0,
pinentry-0.9.7, pixman-0.34.0, poppler-0.43.0, poppler-qt4-0.43.0,
postgresql-9.5.3, potrace-1.13, protobuf-2.6.1, pspp-0.10.2, pugixml-1.7,
python-2.7.11, python-3.4.3, python-acme-0.8.1, python-alembic-0.8.7,
python-atomicwrites-1.1.0, python-babel-2.3.2, python-beautifulsoup4-4.5.0,
python-ccm-2.1.6, python-click-6.6, python-click-threading-0.2.0,
python-coverage-4.1, python-cryptography-1.3.4,
python-cryptography-vectors-1.3.4, python-cssselect-0.9.2, python-cython-0.24,
python-dateutil-2.5.2, python-flake8-2.5.4, python-gst-1.8.2,
python-h5py-2.6.0, python-httplib2-0.9.2, python-iso8601-0.1.11,
python-keyring-8.7, python-libxml2-2.9.4, python-llfuse-1.1,
python-lockfile-0.12.2, python-lxml-3.6.0, python-ly-0.9.4,
python-mccabe-0.4.0, python-mox3-0.14.0, python-numexpr-2.6.0,
python-oslosphinx-4.3.0, python-pandas-0.18.1, python-paramiko-1.16.0,
python-parse-1.6.6, python-parsedatetime-2.1, python-pbr-1.8.1,
python-psutil-4.3.0, python-pygobject-3.20.0, python-pyopenssl-16.0.0,
python-pyqt-5.5, python-pyqt-5.6, python-pyquery-1.2.13, python-pytest-2.7.3,
python-pytest-cov-2.2.1, python-pytz-2016.3, python-requests-2.9.1,
python-requests-toolbelt-0.6.2, python-seaborn-0.7.0,
python-setuptools-scm-1.11.1, python-simplejson-3.8.2, python-sip-4.18,
python-sphinx-repoze-autointerface-0.8, python-stevedore-1.12.0,
python-terminado-0.6, python-tzlocal-1.2.2, python-vobject-0.9.2,
python-waf-1.9.1, python-websocket-client-0.37.0, python-werkzeug-0.11.5,
python-wsgi-intercept-1.2.2, python2-acme-0.8.1, python2-alembic-0.8.7,
python2-atomicwrites-1.1.0, python2-babel-2.3.2, python2-beautifulsoup4-4.5.0,
python2-ccm-2.1.6, python2-click-6.6, python2-coverage-4.1,
python2-cryptography-1.3.4, python2-cryptography-vectors-1.3.4,
python2-cssselect-0.9.2, python2-cssutils-1.0.1, python2-cython-0.24,
python2-dateutil-2.5.2, python2-gst-1.8.2, python2-h5py-2.6.0,
python2-httplib2-0.9.2, python2-iso8601-0.1.11, python2-keyring-8.7,
python2-libxml2-2.9.4, python2-llfuse-1.1, python2-lockfile-0.12.2,
python2-lxml-3.6.0, python2-mccabe-0.4.0, python2-mox3-0.14.0,
python2-numexpr-2.6.0, python2-oslosphinx-4.3.0, python2-pandas-0.18.1,
python2-paramiko-1.16.0, python2-parsedatetime-2.1, python2-pbcore-1.2.8,
python2-pbr-1.8.1, python2-psutil-4.3.0, python2-pygobject-3.20.0,
python2-pyopenssl-16.0.0, python2-pyqt-5.6, python2-pyquery-1.2.13,
python2-pysnptools-0.3.9, python2-pytest-2.7.3, python2-pytest-cov-2.2.1,
python2-pythondialog-3.4.0, python2-pytz-2016.3, python2-seaborn-0.7.0,
python2-setuptools-scm-1.11.1, python2-simplejson-3.8.2, python2-sip-4.18,
python2-sphinx-repoze-autointerface-0.8, python2-stevedore-1.12.0,
python2-terminado-0.6, python2-vobject-0.9.2, python2-waf-1.9.1,
python2-websocket-client-0.37.0, python2-werkzeug-0.11.5, qemu-2.6.0,
qemu-minimal-2.6.0, qsynth-0.4.1, qtkeychain-0.7.0, qtractor-0.7.7,
quassel-0.12.4, r-3.3.0, r-acsnminer-0.16.01.29, r-annotationdbi-1.34.4,
r-bh-1.60.0-2, r-biobase-2.32.0, r-biocgenerics-0.18.0, r-biocparallel-1.6.3,
r-biomart-2.28.0, r-biostrings-2.40.2, r-bsgenome-1.40.1, r-curl-0.9.7,
r-dbi-0.4-1, r-devtools-1.11.1, r-digest-0.6.9, r-dnacopy-1.46.0,
r-evaluate-0.9, r-formatr-1.4, r-genomation-1.4.2, r-genomeinfodb-1.8.3,
r-genomicalignments-1.8.4, r-genomicfeatures-1.24.5, r-genomicranges-1.24.2,
r-ggplot2-2.1.0, r-git2r-0.15.0, r-graph-1.50.0, r-gridextra-2.2.1,
r-gtable-0.2.0, r-highr-0.6, r-htmltools-0.3.5, r-htmlwidgets-0.6,
r-httr-1.1.0, r-impute-1.46.0, r-iranges-2.6.1, r-jsonlite-0.9.20,
r-knitr-1.13, r-matrixstats-0.50.2, r-memoise-1.0.0, r-microbenchmark-1.4-2.1,
r-munsell-0.4.3, r-plotly-3.6.0, r-plotrix-3.6-2, r-qtl-1.39-5,
r-r-methodss3-1.7.1, r-r-oo-1.20.0, r-r-rsp-0.30.0, r-r-utils-2.3.0,
r-r6-2.1.2, r-rcpp-0.12.5, r-rcpparmadillo-0.6.700.6.0, r-rmarkdown-0.9.6,
r-roxygen2-5.0.1, r-rsamtools-1.24.0, r-rstudioapi-0.5, r-rtracklayer-1.32.2,
r-s4vectors-0.10.2, r-scales-0.4.0, r-seqpattern-1.4.0, r-servr-0.4,
r-stringi-1.0-1, r-summarizedexperiment-1.2.3, r-testthat-1.0.2,
r-topgo-2.24.0, r-viridis-0.3.4, r-xml-3.98-1.4, r-xvector-0.12.1, racket-6.5,
readline-6.3, redis-3.2.0, rest-0.8.0, retroarch-1.3.4, rpm-4.12.0.1,
ruby-2.2.5, ruby-2.3.1, ruby-bio-commandeer-0.1.3,
ruby-domain-name-0.5.20160310, ruby-ffi-1.9.14, ruby-hashery-2.1.2,
ruby-mime-types-3.1, ruby-mime-types-data-3.2016.0221,
ruby-mini-portile-2.1.0, ruby-nokogiri-1.6.8, ruby-nokogumbo-1.4.7-1.fb51ff29,
ruby-rspec-3.2.0, ruby-rspec-core-3.2.3, ruby-rspec-mocks-3.2.1,
ruby-shoulda-matchers-3.1.1, ruby-slop-4.1.0, rxvt-unicode-9.22, samba-4.3.11,
samtools-1.3.1, sbcl-1.3.7, scheme48-1.9.2, screen-4.4.0, seahorse-3.20.0,
setbfree-0.8.1, shared-mime-info-1.6, shotwell-0.23.1, skalibs-2.3.10.0,
slepc-3.7.1, slepc-complex-3.7.1, slepc-complex-openmpi-3.7.1,
slepc-openmpi-3.7.1, smartmontools-6.5, sortmerna-2.1b, sqlite-3.12.2,
sshfs-fuse-2.8, st-0.6, stalonetray-0.8.3, star-2.5.2a, starman-0.4014,
subversion-1.8.16, sudo-1.8.17p1, superlu-5.2.1, sxhkd-0.5.6, synergy-1.7.6,
talloc-2.1.7, tar-1.29, taskwarrior-2.5.1, tdb-1.3.9, tesseract-ocr-3.04.01,
testdisk-7.0, tevent-0.9.28, texinfo-6.1, texlive-2016, texlive-minimal-2016,
the-silver-searcher-0.32.0, tiled-0.16.1, tinc-1.0.28, tinyproxy-1.8.4,
tmux-2.2, totem-3.20.1, totem-pl-parser-3.10.6, tvtime-1.0.10, udisks-2.1.7,
units-2.13, unixodbc-2.3.4, v4l-utils-1.10.1, vala-0.32.0, vapoursynth-32,
vcftools-0.1.14, vdirsyncer-0.11.3, vlc-2.2.4, vsearch-2.0.1, vte-0.36.5,
vte-0.44.1, wayland-1.11.0, webkitgtk-2.12.3, webkitgtk-2.4.11,
webkitgtk-gtk2-2.4.11, weechat-1.5, wesnoth-1.12.6, wget-1.18, wicd-1.7.4,
wine-1.9.15, wireless-regdb-2016.05.02, wxmaxima-16.04.2, xboard-4.9.0,
xlockmore-5.47, xorriso-1.4.4, yelp-3.20.1, yelp-xsl-3.20.1,
youtube-dl-2016.07.22, zenity-3.20.0, zeromq-4.0.7, znc-1.6.3, zsh-5.2,
zynaddsubfx-2.5.4

** Programming interfaces

*** New ‘with-imported-modules’ form provided by (guix gexp)

It supersedes the #:modules parameter of ‘gexp->derivation’, ‘compute-file’,
‘gexp->script’, ‘program-file’, etc, as well as the ‘imported-modules’ fields
of <origin> and <shepherd-service>.  See “G-Expressions” in the manual.

*** New (gnu tests) and (gnu build marionette) modules for system tests

See <http://savannah.gnu.org/forum/forum.php?forum_id=8605> for background.

*** New (guix zlib) module
*** New (guix hg-download) module, for Mercurial checkouts
*** (guix download) supports HTTP basic authentication
*** (guix svn-download) supports authentication
*** The ‘source’ of packages can be a ‘local-file’ or any lowerable object
*** Part of (guix utils) moved to the new (guix combinators)
*** GNU updater honors the ‘ftp-server’ and ‘ftp-directory’ package properties
*** CVE linter honors the ‘cpe-name’ and ‘cpe-version’ package properties
*** ‘add-to-store’ and ‘local-file’ have a new #:select? parameter

** Noteworthy bug fixes

*** Perl no longer references GCC (<http://bugs.gnu.org/23077>)
*** Grafting now fails upon I/O errors (<http://bugs.gnu.org/23581>)
*** GuixSD random source is now properly seeded (<http://bugs.gnu.org/23605>)
*** ‘call-with-container’ gracefully reports mount errors
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/23306>)
*** ‘herd start cow-store’ now bind-mounts the target /tmp
*** ‘guix environment’ now honors ‘--system’ (<http://bugs.gnu.org/23682>)
*** ‘guix publish’ properly encodes archive URIs (<http://bugs.gnu.org/21888>)
*** ‘NIX_CONF_DIR’ is now ignored (<http://bugs.gnu.org/22459>)
*** The shell of user ‘nobody’ is ‘nologin’ (<http://bugs.gnu.org/23971>)
*** Source code location is more precise in error messages involving records
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/23969>)
*** ‘guix --version’ is correct in the presence of ‘guix pull’
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/19278>)
*** Git commits are now signed, for eventual authentication by ‘guix pull’
    (in preparation of a fix for <http://bugs.gnu.org/22883>)

** Native language support

*** New translation: zh_CN (Simplified Chinese)
*** Updated translations: fr

* Changes in 0.10.0 (since 0.9.0)

** Community

GNU Guix adopted a contributor code of conduct, see ‘CODE-OF-CONDUCT’ in the
source tree.

** Package management

*** New command-line syntax for separating package names and version numbers

Use ‘@’ instead of ‘-’ as a separator, as in ‘gnupg@2.0’.  This new separator
is a reserved character which is not allowed both in package names and version
numbers.

The old syntax to specify a package’s version—e.g., as “gnupg-2.0”—is obsolete
and support for it will be removed in the future.

*** “Grafts” apply recursively, based on run-time dependencies

“Grafts” is the mechanism by which we can apply security updates of core
packages without rebuilding or re-downloading the entire set of dependent
packages.  See “Security Updates” in the manual, as well as
<https://savannah.gnu.org/forum/forum.php?forum_id=8470> and
<http://bugs.gnu.org/22139> for more info.

*** Substitutes are fetched over HTTPS by default
*** Substitutes are cached for the duration reported in ‘Cache-Control’ headers
*** Default substitute URL list includes a faster mirror, mirror.hydra.gnu.org
*** New ‘--with-input’ and ‘--with-source’ for ‘guix package’ and ‘guix build’

See “Package Transformation Options” in the manual.

*** ‘guix package --search-paths -p X -p Y’ combines search paths for X and Y
*** ‘guix package’ can be passed several ‘--search’ options
*** New ‘--rounds’ and ‘--check’ for ‘guix build’, for bit-reproducibility
*** New ‘--rounds’ option for ‘guix-daemon’
*** New ‘--quiet’ option for ‘guix build’
*** ‘guix package -u’ no longer checks for upstream GNU releases
*** ‘guix-daemon’ always uses /tmp in chroots, regardless of $TMPDIR
*** New Emacs interface to browse licenses: M-x guix-licenses
*** New Emacs interface to list system generations: M-x guix-system-generations
*** New Emacs interface for hydra.gnu.org: M-x guix-hydra-…
*** Changes in Emacs interface variables and faces

In the following names, BUFFER-TYPE means "info" or "list";
ENTRY-TYPE means "package", "output" or "generation".

**** Removed

- guix-info-fill-column
- guix-info-insert-ENTRY-TYPE-function

**** Renamed

- guix-info-ignore-empty-vals -> guix-info-ignore-empty-values
- guix-output-name-width -> guix-generation-output-name-width
- guix-buffer-name-function -> guix-ui-buffer-name-function
- guix-update-after-operation -> guix-ui-update-after-operation
- guix-search-params -> guix-package-search-params
- guix-BUFFER-TYPE-file-path (face) -> guix-BUFFER-TYPE-file-name

**** Replaced

- guix-list-column-format, guix-list-column-value-methods ->
  guix-ENTRY-TYPE-list-format
- guix-info-displayed-params, guix-info-insert-methods,
  guix-package-info-heading-params -> guix-ENTRY-TYPE-info-format
- guix-param-titles, guix-list-column-titles ->
  guix-ENTRY-TYPE-BUFFER-TYPE-titles
- guix-list-describe-warning-count ->
  guix-ENTRY-TYPE-list-describe-warning-count
- guix-package-info-fill-heading -> guix-info-fill

*** New ‘cve’ linter: ‘guix lint -c cve’ reports pending vulnerabilities
*** New ‘gnome’, ‘xorg’, and ‘github’ updaters for ‘guix refresh’
*** ‘guix lint’ times out after 3 seconds when probing URLs
*** ‘guix graph -t bag-with-origins’ includes origins in the graph
*** ‘guix import cran’ can import packages from bioconductor.org

** Distribution

*** GuixSD upgraded to GNU Shepherd 0.3.1 and GNU Linux-libre 4.5.0

See <http://git.savannah.gnu.org/cgit/shepherd.git/tree/NEWS?id=v0.3.1> for
information on the changes between GNU dmd 0.2 and the GNU Shepherd 0.3.1.

*** “System Installation” section of the manual has been expounded
*** Installation image runs GPM and includes more programs
*** GNOME and Xfce desktops are available via services; see "Desktop Services"
*** New ‘tor-hidden-service’ procedure, to declare Tor hidden services
*** New Dovecot service
*** New ‘fstab-service-type’, to populate /etc/fstab
*** New ‘mount?’ field for ‘file-system’ forms
*** Most global environment variables are now set in /etc/environment (pam_env)
*** ‘guix system reconfigure’ now loads/starts new services, stops old ones
    (see <http://bugs.gnu.org/22039>)
*** ‘local-file’ resolves file names relative to the current source file
*** Many reproducibility issues fixed: glibc, perl, bison, emacs-*, python-*, …
*** Initial RAM disk supports ‘modprobe.blacklist’ on the kernel command line
*** New “Running GuixSD in a VM” section in the manual
*** ‘dmd’ changed to ’shepherd’ in ‘guix system’ sub-commands
*** A Bourne-like shell is spawned upon ‘fsck’ failure
    (see <http://bugs.gnu.org/22588>)
*** 639 new packages

aide, allegro, amb-plugins, aria2, armadillo, armadillo, artanis, aseprite,
aspell-dict-it, aspell-dict-nl, assword, asymptote, audit, augeas, autojump,
awscli, baobab, beets, bioawk, blender, bless, borg, bristol, btrfs-progs,
bwa-pssm, byzanz, c-ares, caribou, cd-hit, cereal, cmocka, codingquarry,
colord-gtk, cppcheck, cpulimit, cracklib, crossguid, cuetools, cufflinks,
dcadec, dconf-editor, desmume, devil, dialog, docker-compose, drumstick,
einstein, emacs-async, emacs-constants, emacs-god-mode, emacs-mit-scheme-doc,
emacs-popup, emacs-scheme-complete, emacs-slime, emacs-undo-tree,
emacs-with-editor, emulation-station, etl, evolution-data-server, eyed3, fdm,
fil-plugins, findnewest, fluxbox, font-abattis-cantarell, font-google-noto,
font-un, fraggenescan, freefall, fritzing, fxtract, g-wrap, g2reverb,
gdk-pixbuf+svg, gdm, gdsl, gedit, ghc-aeson-qq, ghc-asn1-encoding,
ghc-asn1-parse, ghc-asn1-types, ghc-byteable, ghc-chasingbottoms, ghc-cmark,
ghc-conduit, ghc-connection, ghc-cryptonite, ghc-deepseq-generics, ghc-diff,
ghc-enclosed-exceptions, ghc-executable-path, ghc-filemanip,
ghc-haskell-src-meta, ghc-highlighting-kate, ghc-hostname, ghc-hourglass,
ghc-hslua, ghc-hspec-contrib, ghc-http-client, ghc-http-client-tls,
ghc-juicypixels, ghc-libxml, ghc-logging-facade, ghc-memory, ghc-mime-types,
ghc-mmap, ghc-mockery, ghc-packedstring, ghc-pandoc, ghc-pandoc-types,
ghc-pem, ghc-regex-pcre-builtin, ghc-sha, ghc-socks, ghc-tasty-kat,
ghc-test-framework, ghc-test-framework-hunit, ghc-test-framework-quickcheck2,
ghc-texmath, ghc-th-expand-syns, ghc-th-lift, ghc-th-orphans,
ghc-th-reify-many, ghc-tls, ghc-x509, ghc-x509-store, ghc-x509-system,
ghc-x509-validation, ghc-yaml, git-annex-remote-hubic, gjs, gnome,
gnome-backgrounds, gnome-bluetooth, gnome-control-center,
gnome-online-accounts, gnome-screenshot, gnome-session, gnome-shell,
gnunet-gtk, gpm, graphicsmagick, gst-plugins-bad, gtk-engines, gtk-vnc,
gtklick, guile-config, guile-gnunet, guile-irregex, guile-sly, gumbo-parser,
icedtea, icedtea, idle3-tools, iftop, info-reader, inklingreader, jasper,
jellyfish, jpegoptim, khal, khard, kodi, kyotocabinet, lcov, ldb, ldc, ledger,
letsencrypt, libbigwig, libcanberra-gtk2, libconfig, libgit2, libgtop,
liblangtag, libmateweather, libmbim, libotf, libpwquality, libqmi, libvdpau,
libxml++, lispf4, love, mate-desktop, mate-icon-theme, mate-menus,
mate-themes, mcp-plugins, microscheme, mlt, modem-manager, munge,
mupen64plus-audio-sdl, mupen64plus-core, mupen64plus-input-sdl,
mupen64plus-rsp-hle, mupen64plus-rsp-z64, mupen64plus-ui-console,
mupen64plus-video-arachnoid, mupen64plus-video-glide64,
mupen64plus-video-glide64mk2, mupen64plus-video-rice, mupen64plus-video-z64,
murrine, mutter, myrepos, nagios, nautilus, network-manager,
network-manager-applet, nload, notmuch-addrlookup-c, nqc, obs, ocaml-findlib,
owncloud-client, password-store, pepr, perl-cgi, perl-dbd-mysql,
perl-file-slurp-tiny, perl-html-template, perl-log-report,
perl-log-report-optional, perl-mime-charset, perl-module-pluggable,
perl-shell-command, perl-string-print, perl-text-neattemplate,
perl-unicode-linebreak, perl-xml-compile, perl-xml-compile-cache,
perl-xml-compile-soap, perl-xml-compile-tester, perl-xml-compile-wsdl11,
perl-xml-libxml-simple, pfff, pianobar, pinball, pioneers, pixz, powwow, ppp,
procmail, pyicoteo, python-acme, python-alembic, python-amqp, python-anyjson,
python-apipkg, python-args, python-astor, python-atomicwrites,
python-backports-abc, python-beautifulsoup4, python-billiard, python-botocore,
python-celery, python-click-log, python-click-threading, python-clint,
python-colorama, python-configargparse, python-configobj, python-contextlib2,
python-cookies, python-docker-py, python-dockerpty, python-docopt,
python-editor, python-efl, python-execnet, python-flask, python-futures,
python-gst, python-hy, python-hypothesis, python-icalendar, python-jellyfish,
python-jmespath, python-keystoneclient, python-kombu, python-mako,
python-markdown, python-minimal-wrapper, python-mpd2, python-munkres,
python-musicbrainzngs, python-mutagen, python-ndg-httpsclient, python-paste,
python-pastedeploy, python-pastescript, python-pathlib, python-pluggy,
python-psycopg2, python-pyasn1-modules, python-pybigwig, python-pyechonest,
python-pygpgme, python-pyicu, python-pylast, python-pyliblo, python-pyquery,
python-pyrfc3339, python-pystache, python-pytest-cache, python-pytest-cov,
python-pytest-localserver, python-pytest-subtesthack, python-pytest-xdist,
python-pytest-xprocess, python-rarfile, python-rauth,
python-requests-toolbelt, python-responses, python-rply, python-rsa,
python-sphinx-repoze-autointerface, python-sphinxcontrib-newsfeed,
python-sphinxcontrib-programoutput, python-swiftclient, python-texttable,
python-tox, python-translitcodec, python-urllib3, python-vcversioner,
python-vobject, python-waitress, python-websocket-client, python-webtest,
python-werkzeug, python-wheel, python-wsgi-intercept, python-wsgiproxy2,
python-wtforms, python-zope-component, python-zope-configuration,
python-zope-event, python-zope-exceptions, python-zope-i18nmessageid,
python-zope-interface, python-zope-location, python-zope-proxy,
python-zope-schema, python-zope-security, python-zope-testing,
python-zope-testrunner, python2-acme, python2-alembic, python2-amqp,
python2-anyjson, python2-apipkg, python2-args, python2-astor,
python2-atomicwrites, python2-backports-abc, python2-beautifulsoup4,
python2-billiard, python2-botocore, python2-celery, python2-clint,
python2-colorama, python2-configargparse, python2-configobj,
python2-contextlib2, python2-cookies, python2-docopt, python2-editor,
python2-efl, python2-enum34, python2-execnet, python2-flask,
python2-functools32, python2-futures, python2-gst, python2-hy,
python2-hypothesis, python2-jellyfish, python2-jmespath,
python2-keystoneclient, python2-kombu, python2-mako, python2-markdown,
python2-mpd2, python2-munkres, python2-musicbrainzngs, python2-mutagen,
python2-ndg-httpsclient, python2-parsedatetime, python2-paste,
python2-pastedeploy, python2-pastescript, python2-pathlib, python2-pluggy,
python2-psycopg2, python2-pyasn1-modules, python2-pybigwig,
python2-pyechonest, python2-pygpgme, python2-pylast, python2-pyliblo,
python2-pyquery, python2-pyrfc3339, python2-pystache, python2-pytest-cov,
python2-pytest-subtesthack, python2-pytest-xdist, python2-pythondialog,
python2-rarfile, python2-rauth, python2-responses, python2-rply, python2-rsa,
python2-sphinx-repoze-autointerface, python2-sphinxcontrib-programoutput,
python2-swiftclient, python2-texttable, python2-tox, python2-translitcodec,
python2-unicodecsv, python2-urllib3, python2-vcversioner, python2-vobject,
python2-waitress, python2-websocket-client, python2-webtest, python2-werkzeug,
python2-wheel, python2-wsgiproxy2, python2-wtforms, python2-xdo,
python2-zope-component, python2-zope-configuration, python2-zope-event,
python2-zope-exceptions, python2-zope-i18nmessageid, python2-zope-interface,
python2-zope-location, python2-zope-proxy, python2-zope-schema,
python2-zope-security, python2-zope-testing, python2-zope-testrunner, qca,
qemu-minimal, qtkeychain, qtractor, quassel, r-acsnminer, r-adaptivesparsity,
r-annotationdbi, r-base64enc, r-biobase, r-biocgenerics, r-biocparallel,
r-biomart, r-biostrings, r-bitops, r-brew, r-bsgenome, r-catools, r-curl,
r-data-table, r-devtools, r-dnacopy, r-doparallel, r-dt, r-foreach,
r-futile-logger, r-futile-options, r-genomation, r-genomeinfodb,
r-genomicalignments, r-genomicfeatures, r-genomicranges, r-git2r, r-go-db,
r-graph, r-gridbase, r-gridextra, r-httr, r-impute, r-iranges, r-iterators,
r-lambda-r, r-lattice, r-matrixstats, r-org-ce-eg-db, r-org-dm-eg-db,
r-org-hs-eg-db, r-org-mm-eg-db, r-plotly, r-plotrix, r-r-cache, r-r-methodss3,
r-r-oo, r-r-rsp, r-r-utils, r-rcpparmadillo, r-rcurl, r-readr, r-rmarkdown,
r-roxygen2, r-rsamtools, r-rsqlite, r-rstudioapi, r-rtracklayer, r-rversions,
r-s4vectors, r-seqpattern, r-snow, r-sparsem, r-summarizedexperiment, r-topgo,
r-viridis, r-whisker, r-xml, r-xml2, r-xvector, radicale, ragel, rakarrack,
rdmd, redshift, rev-plugins, ruby-ae, ruby-afm, ruby-ansi, ruby-ascii85,
ruby-atoulme-saikuro, ruby-bio-commandeer, ruby-blankslate, ruby-brass,
ruby-ci-reporter, ruby-clap, ruby-crass, ruby-cutest, ruby-domain-name,
ruby-eventmachine, ruby-fivemat, ruby-gem-hadar, ruby-gettext, ruby-guard,
ruby-hashery, ruby-http-cookie, ruby-instantiator, ruby-introspection,
ruby-json-pure, ruby-lemon, ruby-locale, ruby-metaclass, ruby-mime-types,
ruby-mime-types-data, ruby-minitest-bonus-assertions, ruby-minitest-focus,
ruby-minitest-moar, ruby-minitest-pretty-diff, ruby-minitest-rg,
ruby-minitest-tu-shim, ruby-mocha, ruby-net-ssh, ruby-netrc,
ruby-nokogiri-diff, ruby-nokogumbo, ruby-packnga, ruby-power-assert,
ruby-pry-editline, ruby-pstree, ruby-pygmentize, ruby-qed, ruby-rb-fsevent,
ruby-rc4, ruby-redcarpet, ruby-redcloth, ruby-rubytest, ruby-rubytest-cli,
ruby-saikuro-treemap, ruby-sanitize, ruby-sdoc, ruby-shoulda,
ruby-shoulda-context, ruby-shoulda-matchers, ruby-shoulda-matchers,
ruby-simplecov, ruby-sqlite3, ruby-systemu, ruby-tdiff, ruby-term-ansicolor,
ruby-test-unit, ruby-text, ruby-tins, ruby-ttfunk, ruby-turn, ruby-unf,
ruby-unf-ext, ruby-utils, scribus, sdl2-image, sdl2-mixer, sdl2-ttf, sdparm,
shepherd, shntool, slurm, smithlab-cpp, snap-aligner, snorenotify, sortmerna,
sparsehash, ste-plugins, stringtie, synfig, synfigstudio, tcllib, tclxml,
telepathy-logger, tevent, texlive-minimal, tilda, tinyxml, tlsdate, tophat,
transmission-remote-cli, ustr, v4l-utils, vco-plugins, vdirsyncer, vdpauinfo,
vmpk, wah-plugins, wcalc, xaos, xfce4-power-manager, xfce4-xkb-plugin,
xmlstarlet, yoshimi, zenity

*** 577 package updates

abcde-2.7.1, abduco-0.5, adwaita-icon-theme-3.18.0, aisleriot-3.18.2,
alsa-modular-synth-2.1.2, alsa-utils-1.1.0, american-fuzzy-lop-1.96b,
ant-1.9.6, ao-1.2.0, arb-2.8.1, ardour-4.7, aspell-dict-en-2016.01.19-0,
atkmm-2.24.2, attr-2.4.47, autogen-5.18.7, bash-4.3.42, bash-minimal-4.3.42,
bash-static-4.3.42, bazaar-2.7.0, bdftopcf-1.0.5, bedtools-2.25.0,
bind-utils-9.10.3-P4, bitcoin-core-0.11.2, bitlbee-3.4.1, bluez-5.36,
boost-1.60.0, bowtie-2.2.6, bundler-1.11.2, calibre-2.51.0, catch-1.3.5,
ccache-3.2.4, chicken-4.10.0, clang-3.6.2, claws-mail-3.13.2, clutter-1.24.2,
clutter-gst-3.0.14, clutter-gtk-1.6.6, cm-0.3, cogl-1.22.0, colordiff-1.0.16,
complexity-1.10, cppunit-1.13.2, cups-filters-1.4.0, curl-7.47.0,
datamash-1.1.0, dconf-0.24.0, ddrescue-1.21, deeptools-2.1.1, devhelp-3.18.1,
diffoscope-51, docbook-xml-4.3, docbook-xml-4.4, docbook-xml-4.5,
dovecot-2.2.19, doxygen-1.8.11, dropbear-2016.72, dvdisaster-0.79.5,
dvtm-0.15, edirect-3.50, efl-1.17.0, eigen-3.2.7, elementary-1.17.0,
elogind-219.14, emacs-dash-2.12.1, emacs-debbugs-0.9, emacs-pdf-tools-0.70,
emacs-w3m-1.4.538+0.20141022, emotion-generic-players-1.17.0,
enlightenment-0.20.6, eog-3.18.1, epiphany-3.18.2,
evas-generic-loaders-1.17.0, evince-3.18.1, exim-4.86.2,
extra-cmake-modules-5.19.0, feh-2.14.1, ffmpeg-2.8.6, file-5.25,
file-roller-3.16.4, findutils-4.6.0, flex-2.6.0,
font-adobe-source-han-sans-1.004, font-terminus-4.40, font-ubuntu-0.83,
font-util-1.3.1, fontforge-20150824, freeipmi-1.5.1, frescobaldi-2.18.2,
fribidi-0.19.7, fuse-2.9.5, gajim-0.16.5, gcc-5.3.0, gcc-toolchain-5.3.0,
gccgo-4.9.3, gcr-3.18.0, gdb-7.11, gdk-pixbuf-2.32.3, geocode-glib-3.18.0,
getmail-4.48.0, gettext-0.19.7, gfortran-5.3.0, git-2.7.3, git-manpages-2.7.3,
git-modes-1.2.1, gitolite-3.6.5, glade-3.18.3, glibc-2.22, glibmm-2.46.3,
global-6.5.2, glpk-4.59, gmime-2.6.20, gmp-6.1.0, gmsh-2.11.0, gmtp-1.3.10,
gnome-common-3.18.0, gnome-desktop-3.18.1, gnome-keyring-3.18.3,
gnome-klotski-3.18.2, gnome-mines-3.18.2, gnome-settings-daemon-3.18.2,
gnome-terminal-3.18.2, gnome-themes-standard-3.18.0, gnucash-2.6.9,
gnumeric-1.12.24, gnupg-2.0.29, gnupg-2.1.11, gnuplot-5.0.2, gnutls-3.4.7,
goffice-0.10.24, gp2c-0.0.9pl5, gpgme-1.6.0, gpsbabel-1.5.2, graphite2-1.3.6,
grep-2.22, grilo-0.2.14, grilo-plugins-0.2.16, gsl-2.1, gst-libav-1.6.3,
gst-plugins-base-1.6.3, gst-plugins-good-1.6.3, gst-plugins-ugly-1.6.3,
gstreamer-1.6.3, gtksourceview-3.18.2, guile-2.0.11, guile-2.0.11,
guile-json-0.5.0, guile-ssh-0.9.0, guitarix-0.34.0, guix-0.9.0,
guix-0.9.0-1.dd21, gvfs-1.26.2, harfbuzz-1.0.6, help2man-1.47.3, hevea-2.28,
htop-2.0.1, hwloc-1.11.1, hydrogen-0.9.6.1, iceauth-1.0.7, icecast-2.4.3,
icecat-38.6.0-gnu1, iproute2-4.4.0, irssi-0.8.18, isc-dhcp-4.3.3-P1,
isync-1.2.1, jrnl-1.9.7, julia-0.4.3, kbproto-1.0.7, keepassx-2.0.2,
kwindowsystem-5.19.0, libass-0.13.2, libassuan-2.4.2, libbluray-0.9.2,
libcddb-1.3.2, libchamplain-0.12.12, libdvdcss-1.4.0, libevent-2.0.22,
libffi-3.2.1, libfontenc-1.1.3, libfs-1.0.7, libgcrypt-1.6.5,
libgnome-keyring-3.12.0, libgpg-error-1.21, libgweather-3.18.1,
libinput-1.2.0, libjpeg-9a, libmicrohttpd-0.9.48, libotr-4.1.1,
libpeas-1.16.0, libpng-1.5.26, librecad-2.0.9, libreoffice-5.0.5.2,
libressl-2.3.3, librsvg-2.40.13, libsecret-0.18.3, libshout-2.4.1,
libsndfile-1.0.26, libssh-0.7.3, libssh2-1.7.0, libstdc++-doc-5.3.0,
libtasn1-4.7, libtiff-4.0.6, libuninameslist-0.5.20150701, libvpx-1.5.0,
libwnck-3.14.0, libx11-1.6.3, libx264-20160220-2245, libxaw-1.0.13,
libxdmcp-1.1.2, libxi-1.7.6, libxkbfile-1.0.9, libxml2-2.9.3, libxmp-4.3.10,
libxp-1.0.3, libxrandr-1.5.0, libxrender-0.9.9, libxshmfence-1.2, libxt-1.1.5,
libxvmc-1.0.9, libxxf86vm-1.1.4, libyubikey-1.13, lilypond-2.19.33,
linux-libre-4.4.6, linux-libre-4.5, lua-5.2.3, macs-2.1.0.20151222,
mafft-7.267, magit-2.5.0, man-pages-4.04, manaplus-1.6.3.12, mariadb-10.1.12,
mercurial-3.7.2, mesa-11.0.9, mesa-headers-11.0.9, mit-krb5-1.13.3,
mkfontscale-1.1.2, moe-1.8, moreutils-0.57, mozjs-24.2.0, mpd-0.19.12,
mplayer-1.2.1, mpv-0.16.0, msmtp-1.6.3, mumps-5.0.1, mumps-metis-5.0.1,
mumps-metis-openmpi-5.0.1, mumps-openmpi-5.0.1, mupdf-1.8, mysql-5.7.11,
nano-2.5.3, ncbi-vdb-2.5.7, ncmpcpp-0.7.3, neon-0.30.1, nettle-3.2,
nginx-1.8.1, ngs-java-1.2.3, ngs-sdk-1.2.3, nix-1.11.2, notmuch-0.21,
nspr-4.10.10, nss-3.21.1, nss-certs-3.21.1, ntp-4.2.8p6, numactl-2.0.11,
octave-4.0.0, offlineimap-6.7.0, openbox-3.6.1, openjpeg-2.0.1,
openjpeg-2.1.0, openmpi-1.10.1, openssh-7.2p2, openssl-1.0.2g, opus-1.1.2,
opusfile-0.7, orc-0.4.25, orfm-0.5.3, oxygen-icons-5.19.0, parallel-20160222,
paredit-24, pari-gp-2.7.5, parted-3.2, pcre-8.38, pelican-3.6.3, perf-4.5,
perl-5.22.1, perl-tk-804.033, petsc-3.6.2, petsc-complex-3.6.2,
petsc-complex-openmpi-3.6.2, petsc-openmpi-3.6.2, pidgin-otr-4.0.2,
pinentry-0.9.6, pius-2.2.2, pkg-config-0.29, postgresql-9.5.1, powertop-2.8,
preseq-2.0, privoxy-3.0.24, procps-3.3.11, prodigal-2.6.3, pspp-0.10.0,
pulseaudio-8.0, pumpa-0.9.2, python-3.4.3, python-apsw-3.9.2-r1,
python-babel-2.1.1, python-biopython-1.66, python-blinker-1.4,
python-certifi-2015.11.20.1, python-cffi-1.4.2, python-click-6.2,
python-coverage-4.0.3, python-cryptography-1.2.3,
python-cryptography-vectors-1.2.3, python-cython-0.23.4,
python-dateutil-2.4.2, python-debtcollector-1.0.0, python-decorator-4.0.9,
python-enum34-1.1.0, python-exif-read-2.1.2, python-file-5.25,
python-fixtures-1.4.0, python-flake8-2.5.4, python-gnupg-0.3.8,
python-html5lib-1.0b8, python-isodate-0.5.4, python-jinja2-2.8,
python-jsonschema-2.5.1, python-keyring-5.7.1, python-libarchive-c-2.2,
python-libxml2-2.9.3, python-llfuse-0.41.1, python-llfuse-1.0,
python-lxml-3.5.0, python-ly-0.9.3, python-matplotlib-1.4.3,
python-mccabe-0.4.0, python-mox3-0.13.0, python-msgpack-0.4.7,
python-networkx-1.11, python-nose-1.3.7, python-numpy-1.10.4,
python-oauthlib-1.0.3, python-os-client-config-1.12.0, python-os-testr-0.5.0,
python-oslo.context-1.0.0, python-oslo.i18n-3.0.0,
python-oslo.serialization-2.2.0, python-oslo.utils-3.0.0,
python-oslosphinx-4.2.0, python-pandas-0.16.2, python-parsedatetime-1.5,
python-passlib-1.6.5, python-patsy-0.4.1, python-pbr-1.8.1, python-pep8-1.7.0,
python-pillow-3.1.1, python-pip-8.0.2, python-psutil-3.3.0, python-py-1.4.31,
python-pycparser-2.14, python-pyflakes-1.0.0, python-pygments-2.0.2,
python-pyjwt-1.4.0, python-pyld-0.6.8, python-pysam-0.8.4, python-pytz-2015.7,
python-pyzmq-15.1.0, python-requests-2.9.1, python-requests-mock-0.7.0,
python-rpy2-2.7.6, python-setuptools-scm-1.9.0, python-six-1.10.0,
python-sqlalchemy-1.0.12, python-stevedore-1.10.0, python-tempest-lib-0.12.0,
python-tlsh-3.4.4, python-tornado-4.3, python-traitlets-4.1.0,
python-tzlocal-1.2, python-unidecode-0.04.18, python-virtualenv-13.1.2,
python-webob-1.5.1, python2-apsw-3.9.2-r1, python2-babel-2.1.1,
python2-backport-ssl-match-hostname-3.5.0.1, python2-biopython-1.66,
python2-blinker-1.4, python2-certifi-2015.11.20.1, python2-cffi-1.4.2,
python2-click-6.2, python2-coverage-4.0.3, python2-cryptography-1.2.3,
python2-cryptography-vectors-1.2.3, python2-cython-0.23.4,
python2-dateutil-2.4.2, python2-debtcollector-1.0.0, python2-decorator-4.0.9,
python2-exif-read-2.1.2, python2-fastlmm-0.2.21, python2-file-5.25,
python2-fixtures-1.4.0, python2-flake8-2.5.4, python2-gnupg-0.3.8,
python2-html5lib-1.0b8, python2-isodate-0.5.4, python2-jinja2-2.8,
python2-jsonschema-2.5.1, python2-keyring-5.7.1, python2-libarchive-c-2.2,
python2-libxml2-2.9.3, python2-llfuse-1.0, python2-lxml-3.5.0,
python2-matplotlib-1.4.3, python2-mccabe-0.4.0, python2-mox3-0.13.0,
python2-msgpack-0.4.7, python2-networkx-1.11, python2-nose-1.3.7,
python2-numpy-1.10.4, python2-oauthlib-1.0.3, python2-os-client-config-1.12.0,
python2-os-testr-0.5.0, python2-oslo.context-1.0.0, python2-oslo.i18n-3.0.0,
python2-oslo.serialization-2.2.0, python2-oslo.utils-3.0.0,
python2-oslosphinx-4.2.0, python2-pandas-0.16.2, python2-passlib-1.6.5,
python2-patsy-0.4.1, python2-pbr-1.8.1, python2-pep8-1.7.0,
python2-pillow-3.1.1, python2-pip-8.0.2, python2-psutil-3.3.0,
python2-py-1.4.31, python2-pycparser-2.14, python2-pyflakes-1.0.0,
python2-pygments-2.0.2, python2-pyicu-1.9.2, python2-pyjwt-1.4.0,
python2-pyld-0.6.8, python2-pysam-0.8.4, python2-pysnptools-0.3.5,
python2-pysqlite-2.8.1, python2-pytz-2015.7, python2-pyzmq-15.1.0,
python2-requests-2.9.1, python2-requests-mock-0.7.0, python2-rpy2-2.7.6,
python2-setuptools-scm-1.9.0, python2-six-1.10.0, python2-sqlalchemy-1.0.12,
python2-stevedore-1.10.0, python2-tempest-lib-0.12.0, python2-tlsh-3.4.4,
python2-tornado-4.3, python2-traitlets-4.1.0, python2-unidecode-0.04.18,
python2-virtualenv-13.1.2, python2-webob-1.5.1, qemu-2.5.0, qrencode-3.4.4,
r-3.2.3, r-ggplot2-2.0.0, r-qtl-1.38-4, randrproto-1.5.0, retroarch-1.3.1,
rsync-3.1.2, ruby-2.2.4, ruby-2.3.0, ruby-mini-portile-2.0.0,
ruby-nokogiri-1.6.7.1, samba-4.3.6, samtools-1.3, sdl2-2.0.4, seahorse-3.18.0,
sessreg-1.1.0, setxkbmap-1.3.1, shflags-1.2.0, simple-scan-3.19.91,
sipwitch-1.9.15, skribilo-0.9.3, slepc-3.6.2, slepc-complex-3.6.2,
slepc-complex-openmpi-3.6.2, slepc-openmpi-3.6.2, smproxy-1.0.6,
socat-1.7.3.1, sqlite-3.10.0, sra-tools-2.5.7, star-2.5.1b, stow-2.2.2,
subversion-1.8.15, sudo-1.8.15, sxiv-1.3.2, talloc-2.1.5, tdb-1.3.8,
texinfo-5.2, texinfo-6.0, texinfo-6.1, the-silver-searcher-0.31.0, tig-2.1.1,
tiled-0.15.1, tmux-2.1, tor-0.2.7.6, torsocks-2.0.0, totem-3.18.1,
tzdata-2015g, ucommon-7.0.0, upower-0.99.3, utf8proc-1.3.1, vapoursynth-28,
vera-1.23, vigra-1.11.0, vsearch-1.10.0, vte-0.42.3, wayland-1.10.0,
webkitgtk-2.12.0, webkitgtk-2.4.10, webkitgtk-gtk2-2.4.10, weechat-1.4,
wget-1.17.1, wine-1.9.4, x11perf-1.6.0, xcmsdb-1.0.5, xdotool-3.20150503.1,
xdpyinfo-1.3.2, xdriinfo-1.0.5, xev-1.2.2, xf86-input-evdev-2.10.1,
xf86-input-keyboard-1.8.1, xf86-input-libinput-0.16.0,
xf86-input-synaptics-1.8.3, xf86-input-void-1.4.1, xf86-video-ati-7.6.1,
xf86-video-cirrus-1.5.3, xf86-video-geode-2.11.18,
xf86-video-intel-2.99.917-1-d167280, xf86-video-mach64-6.9.5,
xf86-video-mga-1.6.4, xf86-video-neomagic-1.2.9, xf86-video-nouveau-1.0.12,
xf86-video-r128-6.10.1, xf86-video-savage-2.3.8,
xf86-video-siliconmotion-1.7.8, xf86-video-sis-0.10.8, xf86-video-tdfx-1.4.6,
xf86-video-trident-1.3.7, xf86-video-vesa-2.3.4, xf86-video-vmware-13.1.0,
xgamma-1.0.6, xhost-1.0.7, xinput-1.6.2, xkbevd-1.1.4, xkeyboard-config-2.17,
xlockmore-5.46, xlsatoms-1.1.2, xmlto-0.0.28, xmodmap-1.0.9,
xorg-server-1.18.1, xorriso-1.4.2, xproto-7.0.28, xrandr-1.5.0, xterm-322,
xvid-1.3.4, xvinfo-1.1.3, xz-5.2.2, yasm-1.3.0, yelp-3.18.1,
yelp-tools-3.18.0, yelp-xsl-3.18.1, ykclient-2.15, youtube-dl-2016.03.01,
zlib-1.2.8, znc-1.6.2, zynaddsubfx-2.5.3

** Programming interfaces

*** Build systems always set the ‘SOURCE_DATE_EPOCH’ environment variable
*** New (guix graph) graph manipulation module, abstracted from ‘guix graph’
*** New (guix cve) module, to navigate the CVE database
*** ‘build-things’ procedure takes a new ‘mode’ parameter
*** Mass rename of ‘dmd’ to ‘shepherd’ in the (gnu …) modules
*** New ‘gnome-desktop-service’ and ‘xfce-desktop-service’ procedures
*** ‘pam-root-service-type’ can be extended with cross-cutting transformations
*** ‘package-with-python2’ honors the ‘python2-variant’ package property
    (see <http://bugs.gnu.org/22437>)

** Noteworthy bug fixes

*** Grafts are applied recursively (<http://bugs.gnu.org/22139>)
*** Commands correctly handle numbers in package names
    (http://bugs.gnu.org/19219)
*** ‘guix-daemon’ deduplication code detects corrupt items
*** eudev now populates /dev/disk/by-{id,label}
*** Selected locale is automatically built (<http://bugs.gnu.org/22572>)
*** Substitutes can be downloaded over HTTPS (<http://bugs.gnu.org/22937>)
*** umask explicitly set in /etc/profile (<http://bugs.gnu.org/22650>)
*** ‘guix system init’ writes GC root on the target file system
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/22802>)
*** ‘guix system vm’ now works in the absence of KVM support
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/22633>)
*** GuixSD includes an Info reader by default (<http://bugs.gnu.org/22598>)
*** MacBook keyboards are now properly detected (<http://bugs.gnu.org/20433>)
*** GRUB searches root by label or UUID (<http://bugs.gnu.org/22281>)
*** ‘guix package --search-paths’ honors propagated inputs
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/22073>)
*** GCC uses ‘C_INCLUDE_PATH’ et al. instead of ‘CPATH’
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/22186>)
*** ‘ld-wrapper’ computes library search path based on all ‘-L’ flags
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/21941>)
*** ‘guix environment --container’ gracefully handles abnormal exists
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/21958>)

** Native language support

*** Updated translations: da, de
*** New translation: pl (Polish)

* Changes in 0.9.0 (since 0.8.3)

** Package management

*** New ‘guix graph’ command, to draw package graphs
*** New ‘guix challenge’ command, to challenge the authenticity of binaries
*** ‘guix environment’ has a new ‘--container’ option
*** ‘guix substitute’ now honors all the specified substitute URLs
*** New ‘guix import cran’ command, to import R packages from CRAN
*** Package descriptions can now include Texinfo markup rendered on the fly
*** ‘guix package’ has a new ‘--install-from-file’ option
*** ‘guix package --search’ shows package outputs
*** ‘guix refresh’ can refresh selected non-GNU package definitions
*** The ‘--ad-hoc’ option of ‘guix environment’ is now positional
*** The ‘--exec’ option of ‘guix environment’ is deprecated; use ‘--’ instead
*** ‘guix build’ has a new ‘--file’ option
*** ‘guix build --log-file’ can now return URLs
*** ‘guix size’ now has a ‘--substitute-urls’ option and is much faster
*** New ‘guix lint’ checkers: ‘formatting’, ‘license’, ‘source-file-name’
*** Download progress report has been improved
*** Emacs shell-mode completions for ‘guix’ commands updated
*** Emacs: New ‘M-x guix’ popup interface
*** Emacs: modes for viewing build logs (‘guix-build-log-mode’)

** Distribution

*** New extensible service composition API

The operating system service API in (gnu services) has been completely
rewritten, significantly improving extensibility and modularity, while
providing a framework that makes it easy to reason about service composition.
Consequently, several sources of redundancy and confusion in
‘operating-system’ declarations have been eliminated.  See “Service
Composition” in the manual.

*** New ‘extension-graph’ and ‘dmd-graph’ sub-commands for ‘guix system’
*** New ‘container’ sub-command for ‘guix system’
*** New ‘guix container’ command, to deal with GuixSD containers
*** New ‘list-generations’ sub-command for ‘guix system’
*** ‘operating-system’ has a new ‘locale-libcs’ field
*** New services: ‘nginx-service’, ‘udisks-service’, ‘guix-publish-service’
*** ‘%desktop-services’ now includes Polkit, GeoClue, elogind, UDisks, and more
*** ‘dbus-daemon’ now has proper support for lazy service activation
*** ‘wicd-service’ automatically adds Wicd to the system profile
*** ‘slim-service’ automatically adds xterm to the system profile
*** hydra.gnu.org now provides substitutes for ‘armhf-linux’
*** /run/systemd is mounted as tmpfs by default, for use by elogind
*** ‘glibc’ package no longer contains Bash in its bin/ directory
*** libc now looks for locale data in a versioned sub-directory
*** libc honors the new ‘GUIX_LOCPATH’ environment variable
*** Xfce now defaults to the GNOME icon theme
*** 543 new packages

abduco, accountsservice, american-fuzzy-lop, ansible, arandr, attic,
autobuild, bash-minimal, bash-static, bio-blastxmlparser, bio-locus,
bioperl-minimal, bioruby, bitcoin-core, bspwm, byobu, cabal-install, cityhash,
clang-runtime, clang-runtime, cm, cmus, conky, coreutils-minimal, cpphs,
cvs-fast-export, d-feet, deeptools, diffoscope, dosbox, dvtm, emacs-butler,
emacs-dash, emacs-debbugs, emacs-deferred, emacs-f, emacs-flycheck,
emacs-let-alist, emacs-ob-ipython, emacs-s, emacs-typo, enblend-enfuse,
epiphany, esmtp, ethtool, evilwm, exfat-utils, express-beta-diversity,
extra-cmake-modules, extundelete, fastcap, fasthenry, figlet, file-roller,
flann, font-anonymous-pro, font-gnu-unifont, font-inconsolata, font-tex-gyre,
font-ubuntu, frescobaldi, fuse-exfat, gajim, gamine, gerbv, gexiv2,
ghc-adjunctions, ghc-aeson, ghc-alex, ghc-annotated-wl-pprint,
ghc-ansi-terminal, ghc-ansi-wl-pprint, ghc-appar, ghc-async, ghc-attoparsec,
ghc-auto-update, ghc-base-compat, ghc-base-orphans, ghc-base64-bytestring,
ghc-bifunctors, ghc-blaze-builder, ghc-blaze-html, ghc-blaze-markup,
ghc-byteorder, ghc-bytestring-builder, ghc-cereal, ghc-cgi, ghc-charset,
ghc-cheapskate, ghc-clock, ghc-cmdargs, ghc-comonad, ghc-contravariant,
ghc-cookie, ghc-css-text, ghc-data-default, ghc-data-default-class,
ghc-data-default-instances-base, ghc-data-default-instances-containers,
ghc-data-default-instances-dlist, ghc-data-default-instances-old-locale,
ghc-digest, ghc-distributive, ghc-dlist, ghc-doctest, ghc-easy-file,
ghc-exceptions, ghc-extensible-exceptions, ghc-extra, ghc-fast-logger,
ghc-fingertree, ghc-free, ghc-generic-deriving, ghc-gluraw, ghc-glut,
ghc-haddock, ghc-haddock-api, ghc-haddock-library, ghc-half, ghc-happy,
ghc-haskell-src, ghc-haskell-src-exts, ghc-hspec, ghc-hspec-core,
ghc-hspec-expectations, ghc-hspec-meta, ghc-html, ghc-http-types, ghc-iproute,
ghc-kan-extensions, ghc-lens, ghc-lifted-base, ghc-logict, ghc-mmorph,
ghc-monad-control, ghc-multipart, ghc-nats, ghc-objectname, ghc-old-locale,
ghc-old-time, ghc-opengl, ghc-openglraw, ghc-optparse-applicative,
ghc-parsers, ghc-pcre-light, ghc-polyparse, ghc-prelude-extras,
ghc-profunctors, ghc-quickcheck-instances, ghc-quickcheck-io,
ghc-quickcheck-unicode, ghc-reducers, ghc-reflection, ghc-regex-base,
ghc-regex-compat, ghc-regex-posix, ghc-regex-tdfa-rc, ghc-resourcet, ghc-safe,
ghc-scientific, ghc-sdl, ghc-sdl-image, ghc-sdl-mixer, ghc-semigroupoids,
ghc-semigroups, ghc-setenv, ghc-silently, ghc-simple-reflect, ghc-smallcheck,
ghc-statevar, ghc-streaming-commons, ghc-stringbuilder, ghc-stringsearch,
ghc-tagged, ghc-tagsoup, ghc-tasty, ghc-tasty-ant-xml, ghc-tasty-golden,
ghc-tasty-hunit, ghc-tasty-quickcheck, ghc-tasty-smallcheck, ghc-temporary,
ghc-temporary-rc, ghc-transformers-base, ghc-transformers-compat,
ghc-trifecta, ghc-unbounded-delays, ghc-uniplate, ghc-unix-compat,
ghc-unix-time, ghc-utf8-string, ghc-vault, ghc-vector-binary-instances,
ghc-void, ghc-wai, ghc-wai-extra, ghc-wai-logger, ghc-word8, ghc-x11,
ghc-x11-xft, ghc-xhtml, ghc-xml, ghc-xmonad-contrib, ghc-xss-sanitize,
ghc-zip-archive, glibc-hurd, glibc-hurd-headers, gmtp, graphios, gtk-doc,
guile-next, guile-present, guile-redis, guile-rsvg, guile-wisp, gusb, gvfs,
gzochi, haunt, hlint, hscolour, hspec-discover, hurd-minimal, i3-wm, i3status,
ibus-libpinyin, idris, ifstatus, keepassx, klick, kwindowsystem, lablgtk,
libatasmart, libchamplain, libchop, libconfuse, libcue, libesmtp, libev,
libfm, libfm-extra, libgee, libgudev, liblxqt, libndp, libpano13, libpinyin,
libraw, libusb-compat, libyajl, lxqt-common, lxqt-session, lxrandr, lxtask,
lxterminal, lz4, mafft, manaplus, mars, menu-cache, minixml, mosaik,
nestopia-ue, newt, non-sequencer, ntk, openimageio, opusfile, patches, pbzip2,
pcmanfm, pcre2, pd, pelican, perl-czplib, perl-date-manip, perl-finance-quote,
perl-html-element-extended, perl-html-tableextract, perl-pod-simple, physfs,
pidgin, pidgin-otr, pigz, po4a, poppler-qt4, pwgen, python-appdirs,
python-bandit, python-blinker, python-ccm, python-chardet,
python-cryptography, python-cryptography-vectors, python-debian,
python-debtcollector, python-ecdsa, python-file, python-fonttools,
python-gnupg, python-hacking, python-httplib2, python-idna,
python-ipython-genutils, python-iso8601, python-joblib, python-libarchive-c,
python-llfuse, python-ly, python-minimal, python-minimal, python-mistune,
python-monotonic, python-mox3, python-msgpack, python-nbxmpp, python-netaddr,
python-numexpr, python-os-client-config, python-os-testr, python-oslo.config,
python-oslo.context, python-oslo.i18n, python-oslo.log,
python-oslo.serialization, python-oslo.utils, python-oslosphinx,
python-oslotest, python-paramiko, python-passlib, python-pathpy, python-patsy,
python-pbr, python-pbr, python-pexpect, python-pickleshare, python-pip,
python-poppler-qt4, python-pretend, python-prettytable, python-ptyprocess,
python-py-bcrypt, python-pyasn1, python-pyopenssl, python-pytest-runner,
python-requests-mock, python-setuptools-scm, python-simplegeneric,
python-statsmodels, python-stevedore, python-tempest-lib, python-terminado,
python-tlsh, python-traitlets, python-webob, python-wrapt, python-xlrd,
python2-appdirs, python2-bandit, python2-blinker, python2-ccm,
python2-chardet, python2-cryptography, python2-cryptography-vectors,
python2-debian, python2-debtcollector, python2-ecdsa, python2-file,
python2-fonttools, python2-gnupg, python2-hacking, python2-httplib2,
python2-idna, python2-ipaddress, python2-ipython-genutils, python2-iso8601,
python2-joblib, python2-keyring, python2-libarchive-c, python2-llfuse,
python2-mistune, python2-monotonic, python2-mox3, python2-msgpack,
python2-nbxmpp, python2-netaddr, python2-notmuch, python2-numexpr,
python2-os-client-config, python2-os-testr, python2-oslo.config,
python2-oslo.context, python2-oslo.i18n, python2-oslo.log,
python2-oslo.serialization, python2-oslo.utils, python2-oslosphinx,
python2-oslotest, python2-paramiko, python2-passlib, python2-pathpy,
python2-patsy, python2-pbr, python2-pbr, python2-pexpect, python2-pickleshare,
python2-pip, python2-pretend, python2-prettytable, python2-ptyprocess,
python2-py-bcrypt, python2-pyasn1, python2-pycrypto, python2-pyopenssl,
python2-pytest-runner, python2-requests-mock, python2-setuptools-scm,
python2-simplegeneric, python2-statsmodels, python2-stevedore,
python2-tempest-lib, python2-terminado, python2-tlsh, python2-traitlets,
python2-webob, python2-wrapt, python2-xlrd, r-assertthat, r-bh, r-chron,
r-codetools, r-colorspace, r-crayon, r-data.table, r-dbi, r-dichromat,
r-digest, r-dplyr, r-evaluate, r-formatr, r-ggplot2, r-gtable, r-highr,
r-htmltools, r-htmlwidgets, r-httpuv, r-jsonlite, r-knitr, r-labeling,
r-lazyeval, r-magrittr, r-markdown, r-memoise, r-microbenchmark, r-mime,
r-munsell, r-plyr, r-proto, r-pryr, r-qtl, r-r6, r-rcolorbrewer, r-rcpp,
r-reshape2, r-scales, r-servr, r-stringi, r-stringr, r-testthat, r-yaml, rage,
raincat, redis, rest, rfkill, rpm, ruby-activesupport, ruby-atoulme-antwrap,
ruby-bio-logger, ruby-builder, ruby-byebug, ruby-coderay, ruby-cucumber-core,
ruby-diff-lcs, ruby-docile, ruby-ffi, ruby-formatador, ruby-gherkin3,
ruby-json, ruby-libxml, ruby-listen, ruby-log4r, ruby-lumberjack,
ruby-method-source, ruby-mini-portile, ruby-minitar, ruby-nenv, ruby-nokogiri,
ruby-notiffany, ruby-orderedhash, ruby-ox, ruby-permutation, ruby-pg,
ruby-pry, ruby-rack, ruby-rb-inotify, ruby-rjb, ruby-rubygems-tasks,
ruby-shellany, ruby-shindo, ruby-simplecov-html, ruby-thor, ruby-thread-safe,
ruby-tzinfo, ruby-xml-simple, ruby-yard, sassc, scmutils, seqmagick, shotwell,
shroud, simple-scan, squashfs-tools, sxhkd, tinc, udisks, unison, vsearch,
webkitgtk-gtk2, wesnoth, wpa-supplicant-minimal, xcb-util-cursor, xcompmgr,
xfce4-pulseaudio-plugin, xjackfreak, xlsfonts, xmonad, yapet, yelp,
yelp-tools, yelp-xsl, znc, zynaddsubfx

*** 268 package updates

abcde-2.7, arb-2.7.0, ardour-4.2, at-spi2-atk-2.18.1, at-spi2-core-2.18.1,
ath9k-htc-firmware-1.4.0, atk-2.18.0, atkmm-2.24.1, autogen-5.18.6,
avidemux-2.6.10, bedtools-2.24.0, binutils-2.25.1,
binutils-static-stripped-tarball-2.25.1, bison-3.0.4, bluez-5.35,
bundler-1.10.6, c-reduce-2.3.0, cairomm-1.12.0, calcurse-4.0.0,
calibre-2.41.0, camlp5-6.14, cgal-4.6.3, chess-6.2.2, clang-3.6.2,
claws-mail-3.13.0, cmake-3.3.2, complexity-1.3, conkeror-1.0pre1.20150730,
cpio-2.12, crossmap-0.2.1, csound-6.05, cups-2.1.0, cups-filters-1.0.75,
cups-minimal-2.1.0, curl-7.45.0, dbus-1.10.0, dbus-1.10.0.a, ddrescue-1.20,
dmd-0.2.01, docbook-xml-4.4, docbook-xml-4.5, dosfstools-3.0.28,
e2fsck-static-1.42.13, e2fsprogs-1.42.13, efl-1.15.2, eigen-3.2.6,
elementary-1.15.2, emotion-generic-players-1.15.0, enlightenment-0.19.12,
eudev-3.1.5, evas-generic-loaders-1.15.0, feh-2.14, ffmpeg-2.8, fish-2.2.0,
flint-2.5.2, fontconfig-2.11.94, freeglut-3.0.0, freeimage-3.17.0,
freeipmi-1.4.11, gcc-4.9.3, gcc-4.9.3, gcc-4.9.3, gcc-5.2.0,
gcc-toolchain-5.2.0, gcj-4.9.3, gdb-7.10, gdk-pixbuf-2.32.1, geiser-0.8.1,
gettext-0.19.6, ghc-7.10.2, ghc-hashable-1.2.3.3, ghc-http-4000.2.20,
ghc-mtl-2.2.1, ghc-network-2.6.2.1, ghc-network-uri-2.6.0.3,
ghc-primitive-0.6.1.0, ghc-quickcheck-2.8.1, ghc-syb-0.6, ghc-text-1.2.1.3,
ghc-vector-0.11.0.0, giflib-5.1.1, git-2.5.0, git-manpages-2.5.0,
git-modes-1.2.0, glib-2.46.1, glib-networking-2.46.1, glibc-2.22,
glibc-locales-2.22, glibc-stripped-tarball-2.22, glibc-utf8-locales-2.22,
glibmm-2.46.1, global-6.5.1, glpk-4.56, gnome-desktop-3.16.2,
gnome-themes-standard-3.16.2, gnu-pw-mgr-1.6, gnumach-headers-1.6,
gnupg-2.1.9, gnurl-7.45.0, gnutls-3.4.5, gobject-introspection-1.46.0,
gp2c-0.0.9pl3, graphite2-1.3.3, graphviz-2.38.0,
gsettings-desktop-schemas-3.18.0, gsl-2.0, gst-libav-1.6.1,
gst-plugins-base-1.6.1, gst-plugins-good-1.6.1, gst-plugins-ugly-1.6.1,
gstreamer-1.6.1, gtk+-3.18.2, gtkmm-3.18.0, guile-ssh-0.8.0, guitarix-0.33.0,
guix-0.8.3, guix-0.8.3.b485f75, harfbuzz-1.0.5, help2man-1.47.2,
hurd-headers-0.7, ibus-1.5.11, icecat-38.3.0-gnu1, icedtea6-1.13.8,
icedtea7-2.6.2, imagemagick-6.9.2-1, intltool-0.51.0, json-glib-1.0.4,
leptonica-1.72, less-481, libbluray-0.9.0, libcap-2.24, libdrm-2.4.65,
libdvdcss-1.3.99, libedit-20150325-3.1, libgcrypt-1.6.3, libgsf-1.14.34,
libidn-1.32, libinput-0.21.0, libmicrohttpd-0.9.45, libmtp-1.1.9,
libotr-4.1.0, libpcap-1.7.4, libpciaccess-0.13.4, libqtxdg-1.2.0,
librsvg-2.40.11, libsigc++-2.6.1, libsoup-2.52.1, libssh-0.6.5, libtiff-4.0.5,
libtorrent-0.13.6, libva-1.6.1, lilypond-2.19.27, links-2.12,
linux-libre-4.2.5, linux-pam-1.2.1, lirc-0.9.3, llvm-3.6.2, lua-5.2.3,
lzo-2.09, magit-2.3.0, mesa-11.0.3, mesa-headers-11.0.3, mig-1.6,
minetest-0.4.13, mosh-1.2.5, mpg123-1.22.4, mplayer-1.2, mpv-0.11.0,
mu-0.9.13, mutt-1.5.24, ncdu-1.11, ncmpcpp-0.6.7, ncurses-6.0, node-0.12.7,
notmuch-0.20.2, ntp-4.2.8p4, ocaml-4.02.3, offlineimap-6.5.7, openblas-0.2.15,
openjpeg-2.1.0, openldap-2.4.42, openssh-7.0p1, orc-0.4.24, pango-1.38.1,
pangomm-2.38.1, parallel-20151022, pavucontrol-3.0,
pbtranscript-tofu-2.2.3.8f5467fe6, pciutils-3.3.1, perf-4.2.5,
perl-xml-parser-2.44, pixman-0.32.8, poppler-0.37.0, powertop-2.7,
python-cffi-1.2.1, python-dateutil-2.2, python-fixtures-1.3.1,
python-ipython-3.2.1, python-pyflakes-0.9.2, python-pygobject-3.18.0,
python-pyqt-4.11.4, python-pyqt-5.5, python-requests-2.8.0,
python-scipy-0.16.0, python-setuptools-18.3.1, python-sip-4.16.9,
python-six-1.9.0, python2-cffi-1.2.1, python2-dateutil-2.2,
python2-fixtures-1.3.1, python2-ipython-3.2.1, python2-pygobject-3.18.0,
python2-pyqt-4.11.4, python2-pyqt-5.5, python2-requests-2.8.0,
python2-scipy-0.16.0, python2-setuptools-18.3.1, python2-sip-4.16.9,
python2-six-1.9.0, qemu-2.4.0.1, qemu-headless-2.4.0.1, qpdf-5.1.3,
qsynth-0.4.0, qt-5.5.1, r-3.2.2, racket-6.2.1, ratpoison-1.4.8, readline-6.3,
retroarch-1.2.2, ripperx-2.8.0, rtorrent-0.9.6, ruby-2.2.3, ruby-arel-6.0.3,
ruby-bacon-1.2.0, ruby-i18n-0.7.0, samtools-1.2, sfarklib-2.24, sfml-2.3.2,
shadow-4.2.1, sipwitch-1.9.14, sqlite-3.8.11.1, subversion-1.8.14,
synergy-1.7.4, tcl-8.6.4, tcpdump-4.7.4, teckit-2.5.4, terminology-0.9.1,
texlive-2015, texlive-bin-2015, texlive-texmf-2015, tiled-0.13.1, tk-8.6.4,
tmux-2.0, tor-0.2.6.10, ucommon-6.6.2, units-2.12, util-linux-2.27,
vala-0.30.0, valgrind-3.11.0, vlc-2.2.1, webkitgtk-2.8.5, weechat-1.3,
wine-1.7.52, wpa-supplicant-2.5, xapian-1.2.21, xterm-320,
youtube-dl-2015.11.01, zsh-5.1.1

** Programming interfaces

*** Rewritten (gnu services) module; (gnu services …) modules adjusted
*** New Emacs development tools, see “Development” in the manual
*** (guix gexp) provides the declarative ‘computed-file’, ‘program-file’, etc.
*** New (guix upstream) module, for generalized upstream release tracking

** Noteworthy bug fixes

*** Passwords in /etc/shadow are SHA512-hashed (http://bugs.gnu.org/21318)
*** daemon: Require a signature for imports made by root
    (http://bugs.gnu.org/21354)
*** emacs: Fix guix-guile-program default value (http://bugs.gnu.org/21127)
*** Compressed initrds no longer include timestamps
*** Partly fix handling of encrypted root partitions
    (http://bugs.gnu.org/19190)
*** Python now includes tkinter (http://bugs.gnu.org/20889)
*** Memoize the results of ‘package-with-python2’ (http://bugs.gnu.org/21675)
*** Use the daemon's substitute URLs by default (http://bugs.gnu.org/20217)
*** ‘guix system --no-grub’ works correctly for ‘init’ and ‘reconfigure’
    (http://bugs.gnu.org/21068)

** Native language support

*** Updated translations: da

* Changes in 0.8.3 (since 0.8.2)

** Package management

*** New ‘guix edit’ and ‘guix size’ commands
*** New ‘--manifest’ option for ‘guix package’, for declarative profiles
*** Similarly, new ‘M-x guix-apply-manifest’ for the Emacs UI
*** Emacs support now includes completion for ‘guix’ commands in shell-mode
*** ‘guix package --search-paths’ now takes an optional argument
*** ‘guix environment --ad-hoc’ creates a custom development environment
*** New ‘--system’ option for ‘guix environment’
*** ‘guix environment’ defines $GUIX_ENVIRONMENT, useful to adjust ‘PS1’
*** New ‘--optimize’ and ‘--verify’ options to ‘guix gc’
*** ‘guix build --with-source’ can now be passed a directory
*** New ‘elpa’ importer for ‘guix import’
*** ‘guix import pypi’ determines the list of dependencies
*** New ‘--substitute-urls’ option for ‘guix build’ and other commands
*** ‘guix substitute’ can now alternate between different substitute URLs
*** New “Running Guix Before It Is Installed” section in the manual
*** Basic manual pages for the ‘guix’ commands are now shipped
*** Building the daemon now necessitates a C++11 compiler

** Distribution

*** New ‘%base-user-accounts’ variable, for common system accounts
*** New ‘--on-error’ option for ‘guix system’
*** New ‘plain-file’ construct, for use in ‘operating-system’ declarations
*** ‘sudoers’ field of ‘operating-system’ renamed to ‘sudoers-file’
*** ‘sudoers-file’ and ‘hosts-file’ fields now take file-like objects
*** File systems under /sys/fs/cgroup are now mounted by default
*** Default compiler is now GCC 4.9.3 (was 4.8.4)
*** ARMv7 port now requires NEON
*** The disk footprint of a dozen key packages has been reduced

*** 179 new packages

adwaita-icon-theme, amule, aragorn, arpack-ng-openmpi, blast+, bundler,
camlp4, camlp5, clutter, clutter-gst, clutter-gtk, cogl, coq, couger, crda,
dealii, dealii-openmpi, devhelp, diamond, dunst, edirect, emacs-auctex,
emacs-mmm-mode, emacs-pdf-tools, eog, execline, exempi, fasttree, faust,
fizmo, gcr, git-modes, gnome-common, gnome-keyring, gnome-klotski,
gnu-c-manual, gnujump, gom, grilo, grilo-plugins, gst-plugins-ugly,
guile-emacs, guile-for-guile-emacs, guile-gdbm-ffi, guitarix, haskell-mode,
hevea, hmmer, hoedown, htslib, hydra, hydrogen, idr, libcmis, libiberty,
libmng, libmpeg2, libreoffice, libressl, librest, libstdc++, libstdc++-doc,
libstdc++-doc, libsvm, libtar, libx264, libxdg-basedir, lpsolve, lxappearance,
magit-svn, metabat, metis, mumps, mumps-metis, mumps-metis-openmpi,
mumps-openmpi, orfm, p4est, p4est-openmpi, perl-authen-sasl,
perl-catalyst-authentication-store-dbix-class,
perl-catalyst-plugin-authorization-roles, perl-data-stag, perl-gssapi,
perl-io-string, perl-net-smtp-ssl, perl-set-object, plink, powertabeditor,
preseq, prodigal, proof-general, pugixml, pv, python-click,
python-feedgenerator, python-flake8, python-gridmap, python-libsvm,
python-libxml2, python-mccabe, python-pandas, python-pep8, python-pep8,
python-psutil, python-pyflakes, python-pyflakes, python-pyzmq, python-redis,
python-rpy2, python-rq, python-scikit-image, python-seaborn, python2-click,
python2-fastlmm, python2-feedgenerator, python2-flake8, python2-gridmap,
python2-libxml2, python2-mccabe, python2-pandas, python2-pep8, python2-pep8,
python2-psutil, python2-pyflakes, python2-pysnptools, python2-pyzmq,
python2-redis, python2-rpy2, python2-rq, python2-scikit-image,
python2-seaborn, python2-warpedlmm, qsynth, randomjungle, rapidjson, raul, rc,
rhythmbox, rsem, rtmidi, ruby-arel, ruby-bacon, ruby-connection-pool,
ruby-daemons, ruby-git, ruby-minitest, ruby-minitest-bacon,
ruby-minitest-sprint, ruby-multipart-post, ruby-net-http-persistent,
ruby-rake-compiler, ruby-rspec, ruby-rspec-core, ruby-rspec-expectations,
ruby-rspec-mocks, ruby-slop, ruby-useragent, scalapack, seahorse, setbfree,
sfarklib, sfarkxtc, sfxr, skalibs, slepc, slepc-complex,
slepc-complex-openmpi, slepc-openmpi, sox, st, totem, wayland, wireless-regdb,
withershins, wxmaxima, xfce4-clipman-plugin, xmlsec, zita-resampler

*** 181 package updates

ardour-4.1-5aa834e, bash-4.3.39, bash-light-4.3.39, bedops-2.4.14,
bind-utils-9.10.2-P2, bison-3.0.4, bitlbee-3.4, boost-1.58.0, brasero-3.12.1,
calibre-2.29.0, catch-1.1.3, ccache-3.2.2, chibi-scheme-0.7.3, clang-3.6.0,
coreutils-8.24, cups-2.0.3, cups-filters-1.0.71, cups-minimal-2.0.3,
curl-7.43.0, datamash-1.0.7, dfu-programmer-0.7.2, duplicity-0.6.26, ed-1.12,
efl-1.14.2, eigen-3.2.5, elementary-1.14.2, emotion-generic-players-1.14.0,
enlightenment-0.19.5, evas-generic-loaders-1.14.0, evince-3.16.1, feh-2.13,
ffmpeg-2.7.1, freeipmi-1.4.9, freetype-2.6, gawk-4.1.3, gcal-4, gcc-5.2.0,
gcc-cross-arm-linux-gnueabihf-4.9.3, gcc-cross-mips64el-linux-gnuabi64-4.9.3,
gcc-cross-sans-libc-avr-4.9.3, gcc-cross-sans-libc-xtensa-elf-4.9.3,
gcc-objc++-4.8.5, gcc-objc-4.8.5, gcc-stripped-tarball-4.9.3,
gcc-toolchain-4.9.3, gcc-toolchain-4.9.3, gcc-toolchain-5.2.0, gccgo-4.8.5,
gcj-4.8.5, gdb-7.9.1, geoclue-2.2.0, gettext-0.19.5, gfortran-4.8.5,
gfortran-4.9.3, gfortran-4.9.3, girara-0.2.4, git-2.4.3, git-manpages-2.4.3,
global-6.5, gnu-pw-mgr-1.4, gnupg-2.1.6, gnutls-3.4.1, goffice-0.10.14,
gpgme-1.5.5, gtk+-3.16.3, gtkmm-3.16.0, guile-2.0.11, guile-2.0.11,
guile-reader-0.6.1, guile-sdl-0.5.2, guix-0.8.2, guix-0.8.2.72cd8ec,
gxmessage-3.4.3, harfbuzz-0.9.40, help2man-1.47.1, httpd-2.4.16, hwloc-1.10.1,
icecat-31.8.0-gnu1, imagemagick-6.9.1-3, inetutils-1.9.4, julia-0.3.10,
libassuan-2.2.1, libdvdnav-5.0.3, libdvdread-5.0.3, libetonyek-0.1.3,
libgpg-error-1.19, libidn-1.31, libksba-1.3.3, libmicrohttpd-0.9.42,
libmpdclient-2.10, libmwaw-0.3.5, libpipeline-1.4.0, libpsl-0.7.1,
librsvg-2.40.9, libunistring-0.9.6, libusb-1.0.19, libvpx-1.4.0, libwps-0.4.0,
libxml2-2.9.2, linux-libre-4.0.8, linux-libre-4.1.2, livestreamer-1.12.2,
lv2-1.12.0, magit-1.4.1, man-db-2.7.1, mariadb-10.0.20, maxima-5.36.1,
mdds-0.12.1, mpd-0.19.10, mpd-mpc-0.27, mpfr-3.1.3, mysql-5.6.25, nano-2.4.2,
ncmpc-0.24, ncmpcpp-0.6.5, nettle-3.1.1, ngs-java-1.1.1, ngs-sdk-1.1.1,
npth-1.2, nss-3.19.2, nss-certs-3.19.2, ntp-4.2.8p3, ocaml-4.02.1,
openblas-0.2.14, openjpeg-2.0.1, openjpeg-2.1.0, openmpi-1.8.5, openssh-6.9p1,
openssl-1.0.2d, parallel-20150622, pari-gp-2.7.4, pcre-8.37, perf-4.1.2,
petsc-3.6.0, petsc-complex-3.6.0, petsc-complex-openmpi-3.6.0,
petsc-openmpi-3.6.0, pinentry-0.9.5, pius-2.1.1, polkit-0.113,
postgresql-9.3.8, pspp-0.8.5, pt-scotch-6.0.4, pumpa-0.9.1, python-3.4.3,
python-dateutil-2.2, python-pillow-2.8.1, python-scikit-learn-0.16.1,
python2-dateutil-2.2, python2-pillow-2.8.1, python2-pygobject-3.16.1,
python2-pyqt-5.4, python2-scikit-learn-0.16.1, qemu-2.3.0,
qemu-headless-2.3.0, qt-5.4.2, r-3.2.1, readline-6.3, ruby-2.1.6, ruby-2.2.2,
samtools-1.2, scotch-6.0.4, screen-4.3.1, sharutils-4.15.2, sipwitch-1.9.8,
sqlite-3.8.10.2, star-2.4.2a, swig-3.0.5, synergy-1.7.3, sysfsutils-2.1.0,
talloc-2.1.2, texinfo-6.0, tor-0.2.6.8, ucommon-6.3.4, unrtf-0.21.9, vamp-2.6,
webkitgtk-2.8.3, which-2.21, xorriso-1.4.0, youtube-dl-2015.06.25,
zathura-0.3.3

** Programming interfaces

*** New “package Reference” and “origin Reference” sections in the manual
*** New ‘emacs-build-system’, which mimics what package.el does
*** New (guix cpio) module, used to produce Linux initrds deterministically
*** New ‘clone’, ‘setns’, and ‘pivot_root’ bindings in (guix build syscalls)
*** New ‘dependencies’ field in <file-system>
*** New #:gem-flags parameter for ‘ruby-build-system’

*** monads: ‘foldm’, ‘mapm’, and ‘anym’ now take a list of regular values
*** monads: Allow n-ary ‘>>=’ expressions
** Noteworthy bug fixes

*** Binary installation tarball now has files root-owned, with zeroed mtime
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/21101>)
*** GRUB background image is always available (<http://bugs.gnu.org/20591>)
*** ‘guix system’ catches references to non-existent user groups
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/20646>)
*** Ignore trailing components for ‘guix gc -d’ (<http://bugs.gnu.org/19757>)
*** ‘guix lint’ warns only when all the URIs are unreachable
*** ‘guix system init’ overwrites the items in the target store
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/20722>)
*** ‘guix-register’ performs deduplication even when --prefix is passed
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/19044>)
*** The ‘location’ of packages is no longer preserved by ‘inherit’
*** GuixSD installation image has udev rules for device-mapper
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/20791>)
*** Daemon distinguishes between “substitutable” and “offloadable” derivations
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/18747>)
*** Avoid infinite loop in ‘guix substitute’
*** ‘guix environment’ now returns the exit code of its command
*** ‘file-system’ declarations can now really use UUIDs
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/19778>)
*** Daemon preserves build user groups (<http://bugs.gnu.org/18994>)
*** Fix quadratic behavior when building packages with many propagated inputs
*** Tarballs for origins with patches/snippet are now build deterministically
*** Scalability issues in ‘guix publish’ have been fixed

** Native language support

*** Updated translations: da, eo

* Changes in 0.8.2 (since 0.8.1)

** Package management

*** New “binary tarball” installation method is available

See “Binary Installation” in the manual.

*** New ‘guix publish’ command, to publish one’s store

See “Invoking guix publish” in the manual.

*** ‘guix package’ runs “profile creation hooks” as needed

It creates X.509 certificate bundles in the profile’s etc/ssl directory, if
needed, generates a package database cache for GHC if the profile includes GHC
(the Haskell compiler), and generates an Info ‘dir’ file (this part was
already done before.)

*** ‘guix package’ creates an ‘etc/profile’ file in the profile

See “Invoking guix package” in the manual.

*** Commands understand version prefixes, such as ‘gcc-5’ for ‘gcc-5.1.0’

*** ‘guix package --search’ now sorts packages by name and version

*** Substitute information is now fetched using HTTP pipelining

Before that the “substituter” used threads.  Using HTTP pipelining means that
resource consumption is reduced on both the client and server sides.  As a
side effect, a progress report is displayed as substitute info is downloaded.

*** ‘guix package’ warns when a $GUIX_PACKAGE_PATH module cannot be loaded

*** New ‘--sources’ option to ‘guix build’

*** New Bash completion file, installed in $sysconfdir/bash_completion.d

*** New ‘guix import hackage’ command

See “Invoking guix import” in the manual.

*** ‘guix lint’ supports FTP for the ‘source’ and ‘home-page’ checkers

*** ‘guix lint’ has a new ‘derivation’ checker

*** ‘guix import cpan’ better handles dependencies and licenses

*** Packages are now build in an environment with a UTF-8 locale

** Distribution

*** C library's name service switch (NSS) is now fully configurable

See “Name Service Switch” in the manual.

*** New services: wicd, lirc, colord, upower, console-keymap, postgresql

*** Xorg service supports new drivers, such as Nouveau

*** lsh service has new options, initializes its seed by default

*** /etc/ssl symlink is created, for X.509 certificates

See “X.509 Certificates” in the manual.

*** ‘guix system’ reports duplicate service identifiers

*** New /etc/bashrc file that loads Bash completion when available

*** SLiM service uses sessions from /run/current-system/profile/share/xsessions

See “X Window” in the manual.

*** The Linux “YAMA” restricting policy on PTRACE_ATTACH is now disabled

*** /etc/shells now lists all the user accounts’ shells

*** /gnu/store is now remounted read-only, to avoid accidental modification

*** /etc/profile is sources each profile’s ‘etc/profile’ file

*** 718 new packages

aalib, aarddict, acpid, agg, aisleriot, alsa-modular-synth, ant, ardour,
ardour, argtable, arpack-ng, aspell-dict-ru, aubio, audacity, avidemux,
avidemux, azr3, bamtools, bash-completion, bedops, bind-utils, bluez, bool,
brdf-explorer, bwa, calf, calibre, catch, ccl, chibi-scheme, chmlib,
clalsadrv, clipper, clisp, clustal-omega, colord, colordiff, cpufrequtils,
crossmap, csound, ctl, cunit, cutadapt, desktop-file-utils, djvulibre,
dnsmasq, dosfstools, double-conversion, dovecot, ecl, efl, elementary,
elogind, emacs-no-x, emotion-generic-players, enca, enlightenment,
evas-generic-loaders, exim, express, extremetuxracer, faad2, fastx-toolkit,
fcitx, fdupes, flexbar, fluidsynth, font-adobe-source-han-sans,
font-wqy-zenhei, freepats, gambit-c, ganv, geda-gaf, geoclue, geocode-glib,
ghc, ghc-case-insensitive, ghc-containers, ghc-fgl, ghc-hashable, ghc-http,
ghc-hunit, ghc-mtl, ghc-network, ghc-network-uri, ghc-parallel, ghc-parsec,
ghc-paths, ghc-primitive, ghc-quickcheck, ghc-random, ghc-split, ghc-stm,
ghc-syb, ghc-text, ghc-tf-random, ghc-unordered-containers, ghc-vector,
ghc-zlib, girara, gitolite, glib-networking, glibc-locales,
glibc-utf8-locales, glibc-utf8-locales, glm, gnome-mines,
gnome-settings-daemon, gnome-terminal, gnucash, gnugo, grit, gst-libav,
guile-minikanren, guile-reader, hdparm, hisat, htseq, htsjdk, hunspell,
hyphen, i2c-tools, ibus, icecast, icedtea6, icedtea7, ilmbase, ir, isync,
ixion, jack2, jalv, jansson, jemalloc, julia, key-mon, ladspa, lash,
leptonica, liba52, libabw, libaio, libass, libavc1394, libbluray, libbs2b,
libcaca, libcap-ng, libcdio-paranoia, libcdr, libdca, libdv, libdvdcss,
libe-book, libedit, libepoxy, libetonyek, libexttextcat, libffcall,
libfreehand, libgnomecanvasmm, libgtextutils, libgweather, libical,
libiec61883, libinput, liblo, libmodplug, libmspack, libmspub, libmtp,
libmwaw, libodfgen, libpagemaker, libqtxdg, libquvi, libquvi-scripts,
libraw1394, librecad, librep, librevenge, libsbsms, libsecret, libshout,
libsoup, libsrtp, libtocc, libungif, libva, libvisio, libwacom, libwebp,
libwpd, libwpg, libwps, libxklavier, libxmp, libyaml, lilv, lilypond, lirc,
livestreamer, ltrace, lv2, lv2-mda-epiano, lv2-mda-piano, lvtk, macs, mariadb,
markdown, mdadm, mdds, mesa-headers, mesa-utils, miredo, miso, moreutils,
mpd-mpc, mpdscribble, mplayer2, mpv, muparser, mythes, ncbi-vdb, ngircd,
ngs-java, ngs-sdk, npth, nss-certs, openblas, openexr, openlibm, openntpd,
openspecfun, openvpn, orc, orcus, p11-kit, patchage, pbtranscript-tofu, pcb,
perl-algorithm-c3, perl-algorithm-diff, perl-aliased,
perl-apache-logformat-compiler, perl-appconfig, perl-b-hooks-endofscope,
perl-base, perl-bit-vector, perl-boolean, perl-cache-cache,
perl-cache-fastmmap, perl-capture-tiny, perl-carp-assert,
perl-carp-assert-more, perl-carp-clan, perl-catalyst-action-renderview,
perl-catalyst-action-rest, perl-catalyst-component-instancepercontext,
perl-catalyst-devel, perl-catalyst-dispatchtype-regex,
perl-catalyst-model-dbic-schema, perl-catalyst-plugin-accesslog,
perl-catalyst-plugin-authentication, perl-catalyst-plugin-captcha,
perl-catalyst-plugin-configloader, perl-catalyst-plugin-session,
perl-catalyst-plugin-session-state-cookie,
perl-catalyst-plugin-session-store-fastmmap, perl-catalyst-plugin-stacktrace,
perl-catalyst-plugin-static-simple, perl-catalyst-runtime,
perl-catalyst-traitfor-request-proxybase, perl-catalyst-view-download,
perl-catalyst-view-json, perl-catalyst-view-tt,
perl-catalystx-component-traits, perl-catalystx-roleapplicator,
perl-catalystx-script-server-starman, perl-cgi-simple, perl-cgi-struct,
perl-class-accessor, perl-class-accessor-chained, perl-class-accessor-grouped,
perl-class-c3, perl-class-c3-adopt-next, perl-class-c3-componentised,
perl-class-data-inheritable, perl-class-date, perl-class-factory-util,
perl-class-inspector, perl-class-load, perl-class-load-xs,
perl-class-method-modifiers, perl-class-methodmaker, perl-class-singleton,
perl-class-tiny, perl-class-unload, perl-class-xsaccessor, perl-common-sense,
perl-compress-raw-bzip2, perl-compress-raw-zlib, perl-config-any,
perl-config-autoconf, perl-config-general, perl-context-preserve,
perl-cpan-meta, perl-cpan-meta-check, perl-cpan-meta-requirements,
perl-cpan-meta-yaml, perl-cpanel-json-xs, perl-crypt-randpasswd,
perl-data-dump, perl-data-dumper-concise, perl-data-optlist, perl-data-page,
perl-data-stream-bulk, perl-data-tumbler, perl-data-visitor, perl-date-calc,
perl-date-calc-xs, perl-datetime, perl-datetime-event-ical,
perl-datetime-event-recurrence, perl-datetime-format-builder,
perl-datetime-format-flexible, perl-datetime-format-http,
perl-datetime-format-ical, perl-datetime-format-natural,
perl-datetime-format-strptime, perl-datetime-locale, perl-datetime-set,
perl-datetime-timezone, perl-datetimex-easy, perl-dbd-pg, perl-dbix-class,
perl-dbix-class-cursor-cached, perl-dbix-class-introspectablem2m,
perl-dbix-class-schema-loader, perl-devel-caller, perl-devel-checkbin,
perl-devel-globaldestruction, perl-devel-lexalias, perl-devel-overloadinfo,
perl-devel-partialdump, perl-devel-stacktrace, perl-devel-stacktrace-ashtml,
perl-devel-symdump, perl-digest-hmac, perl-digest-md5-file,
perl-dist-checkconflicts, perl-email-abstract, perl-email-address,
perl-email-date-format, perl-email-messageid, perl-email-mime,
perl-email-mime-contenttype, perl-email-mime-encodings, perl-email-sender,
perl-email-simple, perl-error, perl-eval-closure, perl-exception-class,
perl-exporter-tiny, perl-extutils-config, perl-extutils-helpers,
perl-extutils-installpaths, perl-file-changenotify, perl-file-copy-recursive,
perl-file-find-rule, perl-file-find-rule-perl, perl-file-homedir,
perl-file-remove, perl-file-sharedir, perl-file-sharedir-install,
perl-file-slurp, perl-file-temp, perl-gd, perl-gd-securityimage,
perl-getopt-long-descriptive, perl-hash-merge, perl-hash-multivalue,
perl-html-form, perl-html-lint, perl-html-tree, perl-http-body,
perl-http-cookiejar, perl-http-parser, perl-http-parser-xs,
perl-http-request-ascgi, perl-http-server-simple, perl-http-tiny,
perl-image-magick, perl-import-into, perl-inc-latest, perl-io-compress,
perl-io-interactive, perl-io-socket-ip, perl-io-stringy, perl-ipc-run,
perl-ipc-sharelite, perl-json, perl-json-any, perl-json-maybexs, perl-json-xs,
perl-lingua-en-findnumber, perl-lingua-en-inflect,
perl-lingua-en-inflect-number, perl-lingua-en-inflect-phrase,
perl-lingua-en-number-isordinal, perl-lingua-en-tagger,
perl-lingua-en-words2nums, perl-lingua-pt-stemmer, perl-lingua-stem,
perl-lingua-stem-fr, perl-lingua-stem-it, perl-lingua-stem-ru,
perl-lingua-stem-snowball-da, perl-list-allutils, perl-list-moreutils,
perl-lwp-protocol-https, perl-lwp-useragent-determined,
perl-memoize-expirelru, perl-mime-types, perl-module-build,
perl-module-build-tiny, perl-module-find, perl-module-implementation,
perl-module-install, perl-module-runtime, perl-module-runtime-conflicts,
perl-module-scandeps, perl-module-util, perl-moo, perl-moose,
perl-moosex-emulate-class-accessor-fast, perl-moosex-getopt,
perl-moosex-markasmethods, perl-moosex-methodattributes, perl-moosex-nonmoose,
perl-moosex-params-validate, perl-moosex-relatedclassroles,
perl-moosex-role-parameterized, perl-moosex-role-withoverloading,
perl-moosex-semiaffordanceaccessor, perl-moosex-strictconstructor,
perl-moosex-traits-pluggable, perl-moosex-types, perl-moosex-types-datetime,
perl-moosex-types-datetime-morecoercions, perl-moosex-types-loadableclass,
perl-moox-types-mooselike, perl-mro-compat, perl-namespace-autoclean,
perl-namespace-clean, perl-net-amazon-s3, perl-net-server,
perl-number-compare, perl-object-signature, perl-package-anon,
perl-package-deprecationmanager, perl-package-stash, perl-package-stash-xs,
perl-padwalker, perl-par-dist, perl-params-util, perl-params-validate,
perl-parent, perl-parse-cpan-meta, perl-path-class, perl-plack,
perl-plack-middleware-fixmissingbodyinredirect,
perl-plack-middleware-methodoverride,
perl-plack-middleware-removeredundantbody, perl-plack-middleware-reverseproxy,
perl-plack-test-externalserver, perl-pod-coverage,
perl-posix-strftime-compiler, perl-readonly, perl-role-tiny, perl-safe-isa,
perl-scalar-list-utils, perl-scope-guard, perl-set-infinite, perl-set-scalar,
perl-snowball-norwegian, perl-snowball-swedish, perl-spiffy,
perl-sql-abstract, perl-sql-splitstatement, perl-sql-tokenizer,
perl-stream-buffered, perl-strictures, perl-string-camelcase,
perl-string-rewriteprefix, perl-string-toidentifier-en, perl-sub-exporter,
perl-sub-exporter-progressive, perl-sub-identify, perl-sub-install,
perl-sub-name, perl-sub-uplevel, perl-svg, perl-sys-hostname-long,
perl-task-weaken, perl-template-timer, perl-template-toolkit,
perl-term-encoding, perl-term-progressbar, perl-term-progressbar-quiet,
perl-term-progressbar-simple, perl-term-readkey, perl-test-base,
perl-test-cleannamespaces, perl-test-differences, perl-test-directory,
perl-test-exception, perl-test-fatal, perl-test-harness, perl-test-leaktrace,
perl-test-longstring, perl-test-mockobject, perl-test-mocktime,
perl-test-most, perl-test-output, perl-test-pod, perl-test-pod-coverage,
perl-test-requires, perl-test-sharedfork, perl-test-tcp, perl-test-trap,
perl-test-utf8, perl-test-warn, perl-test-warnings, perl-test-without-module,
perl-test-writevariants, perl-test-www-mechanize,
perl-test-www-mechanize-catalyst, perl-test-www-mechanize-psgi,
perl-test-yaml, perl-text-aligner, perl-text-balanced, perl-text-csv,
perl-text-diff, perl-text-german, perl-text-glob, perl-text-simpletable,
perl-text-table, perl-text-unidecode, perl-throwable, perl-tie-ixhash,
perl-tie-toobject, perl-time-duration, perl-time-duration-parse,
perl-time-local, perl-time-mock, perl-timedate, perl-tree-simple,
perl-tree-simple-visitorfactory, perl-try-tiny, perl-types-serialiser,
perl-universal-can, perl-universal-isa, perl-uri-find, perl-uri-ws,
perl-variable-magic, perl-www-mechanize, perl-xml-libxml,
perl-xml-namespacesupport, perl-xml-sax, perl-xml-sax-base, perl-yaml,
perl-yaml-tiny, ploticus, polipo, portaudio, pumpa, python-apsw,
python-biopython, python-cssselect, python-dbus, python-decorator,
python-drmaa, python-h5py, python-lxml, python-netifaces, python-networkx,
python-pyxdg, python-pyyaml, python-requests, python-scikit-learn,
python-singledispatch, python-sphinx-rtd-theme, python-sympy, python-testlib,
python-tornado, python-urwid, python-waf, python2-apsw,
python2-backport-ssl-match-hostname, python2-biopython, python2-bx-python,
python2-cssselect, python2-cssutils, python2-dbus, python2-decorator,
python2-drmaa, python2-h5py, python2-lxml, python2-netifaces,
python2-networkx, python2-pbcore, python2-pil, python2-pybedtools,
python2-pycairo, python2-pyxdg, python2-pyyaml, python2-rdflib, python2-rsvg,
python2-scikit-learn, python2-singledispatch, python2-six,
python2-sphinx-rtd-theme, python2-sympy, python2-testlib, python2-tornado,
python2-urwid, python2-waf, python2-xlib, quvi, r, rdesktop, recode, rep-gtk,
rseqc, rsound, rubberband, ruby-hoe, rxvt-unicode, s2tc, sawfish, sbcl, seqan,
serd, serf, sfml, shogun, sloccount, smartmontools, snakemake, soil, solfege,
sord, soundtouch, soxr, sra-tools, sratom, srt2vtt, star, starman, stow,
subread, suil, suitesparse, swt, sysfsutils, sysfsutils, taskwarrior, tbb,
terminology, tesseract-ocr, texlive-bin, texlive-texmf, the-silver-searcher,
tidy, tig, timidity++, tocc, totem-pl-parser, tree, tuxguitar, tvtime,
twolame, txt2man, unqlite, upower, utf8proc, vamp, vapoursynth, vcftools,
vigra, wavpack, webkitgtk, webkitgtk, weex, wicd, wpa-supplicant-light,
wxwidgets, wxwidgets, xbindkeys, xcape, xdg-utils, xf86-input-libinput,
xf86-input-wacom, xf86-video-nouveau, xfce, xmp, xosd, xournal, xvid, zathura,
zathura-cb, zathura-djvu, zathura-pdf-poppler, zathura-ps, zeromq,
zita-alsa-pcmi, zita-convolver

*** 189 package updates

acpica-20150410, apl-1.5, apr-1.5.2, arb-2.3.0, at-spi2-atk-2.16.0,
at-spi2-core-2.16.0, atk-2.16.0, autogen-5.18.5, bison-3.0.4, boost-1.57.0,
cairo-1.14.2, ccrtp-2.1.2, check-0.9.14, clang-3.6.0, cmake-3.2.2,
complexity-1.2, cups-filters-1.0.68, curl-7.42.1, dbus-1.8.16,
dbus-glib-0.104, dejagnu-1.5.3, docbook-xml-4.4, docbook-xml-4.5,
e2fsck-static-1.42.12, e2fsprogs-1.42.12, ed-1.11, eigen-3.2.4,
elfutils-0.161, emacs-24.5, emacs-no-x-toolkit-24.5, exo-0.10.3, ffmpeg-2.6.2,
fish-2.1.2, flac-1.3.1, flint-2.4.5, fltk-1.3.3, freetype-2.5.5, garcon-0.4.0,
gcc-5.1.0, gcc-toolchain-5.1.0, gdb-7.9, geiser-0.7, glib-2.44.0, glibc-2.21,
glibc-2.21, glibc-stripped-tarball-2.21, glibmm-2.44.0, global-6.4,
gnome-desktop-3.16.0, gnome-icon-theme-3.12.0, gnome-themes-standard-3.16.0,
gnu-pw-mgr-1.3, gnubik-2.4.2, gnumach-headers-1.5, gnunet-0.10.1,
gnupg-1.4.19, gnupg-2.0.27, gnupg-2.1.4, gnutls-3.4.0,
gobject-introspection-1.44.0, gpgme-1.5.4, gsettings-desktop-schemas-3.16.0,
gst-plugins-base-1.4.5, gst-plugins-good-1.4.5, gstreamer-1.4.5, gtk+-3.16.2,
gtkmm-2.24.4, gtkmm-3.16.0, guile-ssh-0.7.2, guix-0.8.1, guix-0.8.1.fc34dee,
help2man-1.46.6, httpd-2.4.12, hurd-headers-0.6, icecat-31.6.0-gnu1,
icu4c-55.1, imagemagick-6.9.0-4, imlib2-1.4.7, inetutils-1.9.3, inkscape-0.91,
isc-dhcp-4.3.1, itstool-2.0.2, kbd-2.0.2, libgcrypt-1.6.3, libgpg-error-1.18,
libidn-1.30, libltdl-2.4.6, libmicrohttpd-0.9.40, libmikmod-3.3.7,
libotr-4.1.0, libsigc++-2.4.1, libtasn1-4.5, libtool-2.4.6,
libunistring-0.9.5, libuv-1.4.2, libvorbis-1.3.5, libxfce4ui-4.12.0,
libxfce4util-4.12.1, libxfont-1.5.1, lightning-2.1.0, linux-libre-4.0.2,
linux-libre-headers-3.14.37, llvm-3.6.0, lua-5.2.3, man-pages-3.82,
mesa-10.5.4, mig-1.5, minetest-0.4.12, moe-1.7, mpc-1.0.3, mpd-0.19.9,
mu-0.9.12, nano-2.4.1, ncmpcpp-0.6.2, nettle-3.1, nginx-1.8.0, node-0.12.2,
notmuch-0.19, nspr-4.10.8, nss-3.18, ntp-4.2.8p2, ocrad-0.25, octave-3.8.2,
openconnect-7.05, openjpeg-2.0.1, openjpeg-2.1.0, openldap-2.4.40,
openssh-6.8p1, openssl-1.0.2a, pangomm-2.36.0, parallel-20150422,
pari-gp-2.7.3, patch-2.7.5, perf-4.0.2, perl-libwww-6.13, perl-net-http-6.07,
perl-net-ssleay-1.68, perl-test-simple-1.001014, perl-uri-1.67,
pinentry-0.9.0, pius-2.0.11, podofo-0.9.3, poppler-0.32.0, postgresql-9.3.6,
pulseaudio-6.0, python-3.4.3, python-pillow-2.7.0, python-pygobject-3.16.1,
python-setuptools-12.1, python-wrapper-3.4.3, python2-dateutil-2.2,
python2-pillow-2.7.0, python2-pygobject-3.16.1, python2-setuptools-12.1,
qt-5.4.1, ruby-2.2.2, samba-3.6.25, scons-2.3.4, sdl2-2.0.3, sharutils-4.15.1,
sipwitch-1.9.7, slock-1.2, source-highlight-3.1.8, sqlite-3.8.9,
subversion-1.8.13, texinfo-5.2, thunar-1.6.6, thunar-volman-0.8.1,
tor-0.2.5.12, tumbler-0.1.31, tzdata-2015c, ucommon-6.3.1, vala-0.28.0,
valgrind-3.10.1, vlc-2.2.0, vte-0.40.0, wget-1.16.3, wine-1.7.40,
wpa-supplicant-2.4, xboard-4.8.0, xfce4-appfinder-4.12.0, xfce4-panel-4.12.0,
xfce4-session-4.12.0, xfce4-settings-4.12.0, xfconf-4.12.0, xfdesktop-4.12.0,
xfwm4-4.12.0, xorg-server-1.16.4, xterm-317

** Programming interfaces

*** New (guix build gremlin) to parse and validate ELF dynamic link info

*** (guix build-system gnu) has a new ‘validate-runpath’ phase

This phase reads the dynamic entries of ELF files and reports libraries listed
as NEEDED that are not found in the RUNPATH.

*** New (gnu services desktop) module and ‘%desktop-services’ variable

*** New (guix cvs-download) module, for CVS checkouts

*** New (guix build-system waf) module, for the Waf build system

*** New (guix build-system haskell) module, to build Haskell packages

*** (guix build-system gnu) now supports zip archives

*** New convenience syntax ‘modify-phases’ added in (guix build utils)

*** The ‘ld’ wrapper more finely determines whether to use ‘-rpath’

*** (guix gexp) exports ‘gexp-input’ to describe input unambiguously

*** The ‘define-gexp-compiler’ form allows (guix gexp) to be extended

*** New ‘local-file’ constructor exported by (guix gexp)

** Noteworthy bug fixes

*** Profiles created with ‘guix package -p’ as indirect GC roots

Before that they were made permanent GC roots–i.e., uncollectable.

*** ‘guix package’ distinguishes downgrades from upgrades

*** Handle HTTP redirects to relative URI references
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/19840>)

*** Downloads now honor the ‘http_proxy’ environment variable
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/20402>)

*** ‘--no-*’ options are now always correctly handled
    (<http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/guix-devel/2015-02/msg00702.html>)

*** SLiM no longer leaks open file descriptors

*** Don't compare <pam-service> objects with 'equal?'
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/20037>)

*** x86_64 and i686 bootstrap binaries updated (<http://bugs.gnu.org/19780>)

*** ‘find-files’ no longer follows symlinks (<http://bugs.gnu.org/20081>)

*** libc message catalog (‘libc.mo’) is now installed

*** libstdc++ has appropriate RUNPATH (<http://bugs.gnu.org/20358>)

*** ‘dhcp-client-service’ now correctly tracks dhclient’s PID

** Native language support

*** New translations: da (Danish)

*** Updated translations: eo

* Changes in 0.8.1 (since 0.8)

** Package management

*** New ‘--share’ and ‘--expose’ options for ‘guix system vm’

See “Invoking guix system” in the manual.

*** Emacs mode now automatically loads newly installed Emacs packages

See “Emacs Initial Setup” in the manual.

*** ‘guix-daemon’ now defaults to ‘--cores=0 --jobs=1’

In other words, at any given time, only one derivation is being built or
substituted, and it can use as many cores as available.  Before, there could
be N derivations using N cores, which was obviously not desirable.

*** Command-line tools support the ‘GUIX_BUILD_OPTIONS’ environment variable

See “Invoking guix build” in the manual.

*** ‘guix environment’ is faster

*** New ‘--recursive’ option for ‘guix archive’

See “Invoking guix archive” in the manual.

*** Missing patches required by a package definition are gracefully reported

*** ‘guix lint’ supports additional checkers

The new checkers are ‘gnu-description’, ‘home-page’, and ‘source’.
See “Invoking guix lint” in the manual.

*** New CPAN importer for ‘guix import’

See “Invoking guix import” in the manual.

** Distribution

*** USB installation image has more tools

Tools added since 0.8: wpa_supplicant, cryptsetup, and iw.

*** Linux kernel module dependencies are automatically handled

Before that, all the modules needed in the initrd would need to be explicitly
listed, including their dependencies, and in topological order.

*** Font packages now all have a name starting with ‘font-’

See “Fonts” in the manual.

*** Shell startup files have been cleaned up

/etc/profile contains only environment variable definitions, which may also be
used when running a different shell.  The skeletons for user’s ‘.bash_profile’
and ‘.bashrc’ files behave as documented in the Bash manual.  Zsh is supported.

*** The ‘root’ account gets a copy of the account skeleton files

Before that, the skeleton files would only be copied to non-root accounts.

*** The name service cache daemon (nscd) is configurable

By default it aggressively caches host and service lookups.  See “Base
Services” in the manual.

*** Available locale definitions are now declared in ‘operating-system’

Before, the ‘glibc’ package would contain all the existing locales, as well as
the ‘locale-archive’ file, amounting to 110 MiB.  See “Locales” in the manual.

*** SLiM sessions are configurable

Pressing F1 in the SLiM graphical log-in screen allows users to choose among
the pre-configured session types.  See “X Window” in the manual.

*** Man pages and Info files are systematically gzip-compressed

*** ‘gnu-build-system’ ensures that documentation is in share/{man,info}

If a package installs to $prefix/{man,info}, this is automatically fixed to be
$prefix/share/{man,info}.

*** ‘strip’ is invoked only on ELF files and ‘ar’ archives

*** ‘libtool’ and ‘libltdl’ are now separate packages

*** Emacs mode is readily usable on the Guix System Distribution

*** Substitutes are now enabled by default on freshly installed systems
*** 164 new packages

abcde, astyle, avr-libc, bbdb, bedtools, bowtie, bullet, c-reduce, cd-discid,
cgal, clang, claws-mail, cups, cups-filters, cups-minimal, dconf, delta,
dmenu, eigen, emms, exo, fastjar, font-bitstream-vera, font-dejavu,
font-gnu-freefont-ttf, font-liberation, font-terminus, fvwm, garcon,
gcc-cross-arm-linux-gnueabihf, gcc-cross-sans-libc-avr, gcj, getmail,
git-flow, git-manpages, git-test-sequence, glew, glulxe, gourmet,
gst-plugins-good, gtk-xfce-engine, hexchat, ijs, iw, jack, json-glib,
libdvdnav, libdvdread, libetpan, libevdev, libltdl, libtorrent, libupnp,
libwnck, libwnck, libxfce4ui, libxfce4util, libxshmfence, libyubikey, llvm,
lrdf, mg, mp3info, msmtp, ncftp, nginx, ninja, nss, openbox,
perl-benchmark-timer, perl-clone, perl-digest-sha1, perl-exporter-lite,
perl-file-which, perl-getopt-tabular, perl-ipc-run3, perl-probe-perl,
perl-regexp-common, perl-sys-cpu, perl-test-deep, perl-test-nowarnings,
perl-test-script, perl-test-simple, perl-test-tester, pflask,
python-cairocffi, python-cffi, python-distutils-extra, python-html5lib,
python-ipython, python-isodate, python-matplotlib, python-numpy,
python-numpydoc, python-pillow, python-pycairo, python-pycparser,
python-pygobject, python-pyparsing, python-pyqt, python-pysam, python-rdflib,
python-scipy, python-sip, python-sqlalchemy, python-xcffib, python2-cairocffi,
python2-cffi, python2-distutils-extra, python2-elib.intl, python2-html5lib,
python2-ipython, python2-isodate, python2-matplotlib, python2-numpy,
python2-numpydoc, python2-pillow, python2-py2cairo, python2-pycparser,
python2-pygobject, python2-pygtk, python2-pyparsing, python2-pyqt,
python2-pysam, python2-scipy, python2-sip, python2-sqlalchemy, python2-xcffib,
qpdf, retroarch, rtorrent, samtools, shflags, slang, slock, socat,
startup-notification, sxiv, taglib, telepathy-glib, thunar, thunar-volman,
tre, tumbler, vala, vte, vte, wine, wmctrl, xclip, xdotool, xf86-video-geode,
xfce4-appfinder, xfce4-battery-plugin, xfce4-panel, xfce4-session,
xfce4-settings, xfce4-terminal, xfconf, xfdesktop, xfwm4, xinit, ykclient,
zerofree

*** 222 package updates

apr-util-1.5.4, atk-2.15.3, automake-1.15, bash-4.3.33, bash-light-4.3.33,
bdftopcf-1.0.4, binutils-2.25, binutils-static-stripped-tarball-2.25,
cairo-1.12.18, cairomm-1.11.2, ccrtp-2.1.1, curl-7.40.0, dbus-1.8.12,
dbus-glib-0.102, ddrescue-1.19, dri2proto-2.8, e2fsck-static-1.42.11,
e2fsprogs-1.42.11, eudev-2.1.1, ffmpeg-2.5.3, file-5.22, fish-2.1.1,
fontconfig-2.11.92, fontsproto-2.1.3, freeipmi-1.4.8,
gcc-cross-mips64el-linux-gnuabi64-4.8.4, gcc-cross-sans-libc-xtensa-elf-4.8.4,
gcc-objc++-4.8.4, gcc-objc-4.8.4, gcc-stripped-tarball-4.8.4, gccgo-4.8.4,
gcl-2.6.12, gd-2.1.1, gdb-7.8.2, gdk-pixbuf-2.31.1, gettext-0.19.4,
gfortran-4.8.4, ghostscript-9.14.0, ghostscript-with-x-9.14.0, gimp-2.8.14,
git-2.2.1, glib-2.42.1, glibmm-2.42.0, global-6.3.3, glproto-1.4.17,
gnutls-3.2.21, gobject-introspection-1.42.0, gp2c-0.0.9pl2, grep-2.21,
groff-1.22.3, gss-1.0.3, gst-plugins-base-1.0.10, gtk+-3.14.7, gtkmm-3.14.0,
guix-0.8, guix-0.8.4ad8789, help2man-1.46.4, iceauth-1.0.6, icu4c-54.1,
inkscape-0.48.5, inputproto-2.3.1, lcms-2.6, lftp-4.6.1, libassuan-2.2.0,
libcdio-0.93, libdmx-1.1.3, libdrm-2.4.58, libfontenc-1.1.2, libfs-1.0.6,
libgcrypt-1.6.2, libgpg-error-1.17, libice-1.0.9, libjpeg-9a, libksba-1.3.2,
libmicrohttpd-0.9.39, libnl-3.2.25, libpciaccess-0.13.2, libpeas-1.12.1,
libpng-1.5.21, librsvg-2.40.6, libsm-1.2.2, libtasn1-4.2, libtool-2.4.5,
libx11-1.6.2, libxau-1.0.8, libxaw-1.0.12, libxcb-1.11, libxcomposite-0.4.4,
libxcursor-1.1.14, libxdamage-1.1.4, libxext-1.3.3, libxfixes-5.0.1,
libxfont-1.5.0, libxft-2.3.2, libxi-1.7.4, libxinerama-1.1.3,
libxkbcommon-0.5.0, libxmu-1.1.2, libxp-1.0.2, libxpm-3.5.11, libxrandr-1.4.2,
libxrender-0.9.8, libxres-1.0.7, libxt-1.1.4, libxtst-1.2.2, libxv-1.0.10,
libxvmc-1.0.8, libxxf86dga-1.1.4, libxxf86vm-1.1.3, linux-libre-3.18.4,
lua-5.2.3, makedepend-1.0.5, mercurial-3.2.4, mesa-10.4.0, minetest-0.4.11,
mkfontscale-1.1.1, neon-0.30.0, nix-1.8, ntp-4.2.8, ocrad-0.24,
openjpeg-2.0.1, openssl-1.0.1k, pango-1.36.8, parallel-20150122,
pari-gp-2.7.2, patchelf-0.8, pcre-8.36, perf-3.18.4, phonon-4.8.3,
pixman-0.32.6, pkg-config-0.28, poppler-0.28.1, python-3.3.5,
python-dateutil-2.2, python2-dateutil-2.2, qemu-2.2.0, qemu-headless-2.2.0,
qt-5.4.0, racket-6.1.1, randrproto-1.4.0, raptor2-2.0.15, rasqal-0.9.33,
rcs-5.9.4, ruby-2.1.5, sessreg-1.0.8, sipwitch-1.9.3, sqlite-3.8.7.4,
tiled-0.11.0, tmux-1.9a, tzdata-2014j, ucommon-6.2.3, util-linux-2.25.2,
util-macros-1.19.0, vera-1.22, videoproto-2.3.2, wget-1.16.1, xauth-1.0.9,
xbacklight-1.2.1, xcb-proto-1.11, xcb-util-0.4.0, xcb-util-image-0.4.0,
xcb-util-keysyms-0.4.0, xcb-util-renderutil-0.3.9, xcb-util-wm-0.4.1,
xcursor-themes-1.0.4, xcursorgen-1.0.6, xdpyinfo-1.3.1, xev-1.2.1,
xextproto-7.3.0, xf86-input-evdev-2.8.4, xf86-input-joystick-1.6.2,
xf86-input-keyboard-1.8.0, xf86-input-mouse-1.9.1, xf86-input-synaptics-1.8.1,
xf86-video-ark-0.7.5, xf86-video-ati-7.5.0, xf86-video-cirrus-1.5.2,
xf86-video-fbdev-0.4.4, xf86-video-glint-1.2.8, xf86-video-i128-1.3.6,
xf86-video-intel-2.21.15, xf86-video-mach64-6.9.4, xf86-video-mga-1.6.3,
xf86-video-neomagic-1.2.8, xf86-video-nv-2.1.20, xf86-video-openchrome-0.3.3,
xf86-video-r128-6.9.2, xf86-video-savage-2.3.7,
xf86-video-siliconmotion-1.7.7, xf86-video-sis-0.10.7,
xf86-video-suncg6-1.1.2, xf86-video-sunffb-1.2.2, xf86-video-tdfx-1.4.5,
xf86-video-tga-1.2.2, xf86-video-trident-1.3.6, xf86-video-vesa-2.3.3,
xf86-video-vmware-13.0.2, xf86-video-voodoo-1.2.5, xhost-1.0.6, xinput-1.6.1,
xkbcomp-1.3.0, xkbutils-1.0.4, xkeyboard-config-2.13, xkill-1.0.4,
xlockmore-5.45, xlsclients-1.1.3, xmodmap-1.0.8, xnee-3.19,
xorg-server-1.16.3, xprop-1.2.2, xproto-7.0.26, xrandr-1.4.3, xrdb-1.1.0,
xrefresh-1.0.5, xset-1.2.3, xsetroot-1.1.1, xtrans-1.3.5, xvinfo-1.1.2,
xwd-1.0.6, xwininfo-1.1.3, youtube-dl-2015.01.23.4, zsh-5.0.7

** Programming interfaces

*** New (guix elf) and (gnu build linux-modules) modules

These provide resolution of Linux kernel module dependencies.  See
<https://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/guix-devel/2014-11/msg00670.html>.

*** ‘glib-or-gtk-build-system’ has been extended

It now handles GIO and XDG themes, takes care of generating the icon cache,
and has a new #:glib-or-gtk-wrap-excluded-outputs parameter.

*** ‘search-path-specification’ can now specify non-directory items

For example, the ‘search-path-specification’ attached to libxml2 specifies a
file pattern, which allows all the ‘catalog.xml’ files to be added to the
‘XML_CATALOG_FILES’ environment variable.

*** (guix build syscalls) has more network-related procedures

‘set-network-interface-flags’, ‘set-network-interface-address’,
‘network-interface-address’, and ‘configure-network-interface’ are ioctl
bindings used by network-handling dmd services.

*** (guix monads) refactoring

‘%store-monad’ is now in (guix store) and is an alias for the new
‘%state-monad’ provided by (guix monads).  Monadic procedures dealing with the
store, with derivations, and with packages have been moved from (guix monads)
to (guix store), (guix derivations), and (guix packages).  See “The Store
Monad” in the manual.

*** (guix build utils) provides ‘parallel-job-count’

*** ‘wrap-program’ preserves the original argv[0]

*** New (guix sets) module

*** ‘define-record-type*’ now support “delayed” fields

** Noteworthy bug fixes

*** X session is executed from a login shell (<http://bugs.gnu.org/19119>)
*** grub.cfg is now a garbage-collector root (<http://bugs.gnu.org/19160>)
*** Substituter progress report properly formatted 
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/19313>)
*** Document permissions for /gnu/store (<http://bugs.gnu.org/19316>)
*** Make sure config.go is newer than config.scm
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/19317>)
*** Emacs knows where to find its GLib schemas (<http://bugs.gnu.org/19138>)
*** Adjust 'grub.cfg' to work on systems with a separate /boot
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/19220>)
*** Fix removal of next-to-last item in a profile
    (<http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/guix-devel/2014-12/msg00292.html>)
*** Apply patches with "patch --force" (<http://bugs.gnu.org/19402>)
*** Extend ‘search-path-specification’ for libxml2-style use cases
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/18033>)
*** Search for patches under $GUIX_PACKAGE_PATH (<http://bugs.gnu.org/19364>)
*** Use executables from the target inputs in 'patch-shebangs'
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/18895>)
*** guix-daemon now automatically creates '…/profiles/per-user'
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/19315>)
*** Make /etc/mtab a symlink to /proc/self/mounts
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/19491>)
*** Don't build the mips64el-linux-gnuabi64 cross-compiler on i686
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/19598>)
*** Read archive signatures as Latin-1 strings (<http://bugs.gnu.org/19610>)
*** Raise an error for references to non-existent outputs
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/19630>)
*** Initialize libgcrypt before use (<http://bugs.gnu.org/19677>)

** Native language support

*** New translations: fr (French), hu (Hungarian)
*** Updated translation: eo, vi

* Changes in 0.8 (since 0.7)

** Package management

*** New visual user interface in Emacs

See “Emacs Interface” in the manual.

*** New ‘guix environment’ command to produce development environment

See “Invoking guix environment” in the manual.

*** The ‘guix import’ command has been extended and documented

It can now import packages from pypi.python.org and from GNU.
See “Invoking guix import” in the manual.

*** New ‘guix lint’ command, for use by Guix developers

See “Invoking guix lint” in the manual.

*** Packages can now be “grafted” with replacements of their dependencies

See “Security Updates” in the manual.

*** The distribution can be extended with ‘--load-path’ or $GUIX_PACKAGE_PATH

This allows users to maintain their own package definitions, and make them
visible to the various user interfaces.  See “Package Modules” in the manual.

*** ‘guix package’ better reports package upgrades

*** ‘guix package’ has a new ‘--switch-generation’ option

See “Invoking guix package” in the manual.

*** ‘guix-daemon’ has a new ‘--substitute-urls’ option

See “Invoking guix-daemon” in the manual.

** Distribution

*** The stand-alone operating system now supports Linux mapped devices

See “Mapped Devices” in the manual.

*** New fields in ‘operating-system’ declarations, better documentation

New fields include ‘hosts-file’, ‘mapped-devices’, and ‘swap-devices’.
See “operating-system Reference” in the manual.

*** New services: ‘dhcp-client-service’, ‘bitlbee-service’, ‘ntp-service’

See “Services” in the manual.

*** Free firmware can be loaded

This notably enables support for some Atheros-based WiFi devices (ath9k-htc.)
See “operating-system Reference” in the manual.

*** ‘grub-configuration’ declarations can now specify a theme

See “GRUB Configuration” in the manual.

*** The ‘base-initrd’ now has a different signature

Existing uses in ‘operating-system’ declarations need to be updated.  See
“Initial RAM Disk” in the manual for details.

*** eudev is now used by default, instead of an old udev release

*** ‘guix system vm’ has a new ‘--full-boot’ option

See “Invoking guix system” in the manual.

*** The ‘file’ command is now part of the package build environment

Autoconf-generated ‘configure’ scripts for packages using Libtool use ‘file’
to determine the target ABI, notably on MIPS, hence this change.

*** 162 new packages

abiword, acpica, adns, arb, ath9k-htc-firmware, atlas, avrdude, cppunit,
dblatex, detox, dfu-programmer, dionysus, direvent, dmidecode, dri3proto,
emacs-no-x-toolkit, emacs-w3m, emacs-wget, enchant, eudev, feh, flashrom,
flint, fontforge, freedink, freeimage, fribidi,
gcc-cross-sans-libc-xtensa-elf, giblib, gnome-themes-standard, gpsbabel,
gpscorrelate, graphite2, gtypist, guile-charting, guile-sdl, imake, imlib2,
irrlicht, jbig2dec, libpsl, libspiro, libuninameslist, libwmf, lm-sensors,
magit, minetest, miscfiles, mozjs, mupdf, nix, nspr, nss-mdns, ntp, nvi, opam,
openal, openjpeg, opus-tools, orpheus, ots, oxygen-icons, paredit, perf,
perl-archive-zip, perl-dbd-sqlite, perl-dbi, perl-image-exiftool,
perl-io-socket-ssl, perl-net-ssleay, perl-www-curl, perl-zip, polkit,
polkit-qt, postgresql, potrace, presentproto, python-certifi, python-coverage,
python-cython, python-discover, python-docutils, python-exif-read,
python-extras, python-fixtures, python-itsdangerous, python-jinja2,
python-jsonschema, python-markupsafe, python-mimeparse, python-nose,
python-oauthlib, python-py, python-pygments, python-pyjwt, python-pyld,
python-pytest, python-scripttest, python-sphinx, python-subunit,
python-testrepository, python-testresources, python-testscenarios,
python-testtools, python-unidecode, python-unittest2, python-virtualenv,
python2-certifi, python2-coverage, python2-cython, python2-discover,
python2-docutils, python2-exif-read, python2-extras, python2-fixtures,
python2-itsdangerous, python2-jinja2, python2-jsonschema, python2-markupsafe,
python2-mimeparse, python2-nose, python2-oauthlib, python2-py,
python2-pygments, python2-pyjwt, python2-pyld, python2-pytest,
python2-requests, python2-scripttest, python2-sphinx, python2-subunit,
python2-testrepository, python2-testresources, python2-testscenarios,
python2-testtools, python2-unidecode, python2-unittest2, python2-virtualenv,
rrdtool, ruby, ruby, ruby-i18n, sane-backends, scrot, sound-theme-freedesktop,
stress, synergy, tdb, terminus-font, testdisk, texi2html, tiled, transfig,
unclutter, unixodbc, weechat, wv, xboing, xf86-video-modesetting, xfig,
xsensors, zsh

*** 117 package updates

acct-6.6.2, acl-2.2.52, apl-1.4, apr-1.5.1, apr-util-1.5.3, autoconf-2.68,
autoconf-2.69, autogen-5.18.4, bash-4.3.30, bash-light-4.3.30, bazaar-2.6.0,
bison-2.7, calcurse-3.2.1, ccache-3.1.10, chicken-4.9.0.1, coreutils-8.23,
curl-7.37.1, datamash-1.0.6, dbus-1.8.8, docbook-xml-4.2, docbook-xml-4.4,
docbook-xml-4.5, emacs-24.4, ffmpeg-2.2.10, ffmpeg-2.4.3, file-5.19,
file-5.20, freeipmi-1.4.5, gcc-4.7.4, gcc-4.9.2, gcc-toolchain-4.9.2,
gcl-2.6.11, gdb-7.8.1, geiser-0.6, gettext-0.19.3, git-2.1.2, glibc-2.20,
glibc-2.20, glibc-stripped-tarball-2.20, global-6.3.2, glpk-4.55,
gnupg-1.4.18, gnupg-2.0.26, gnurl-7.37.0, gnutls-3.2.20, gpgme-1.5.1,
gst-plugins-base-1.0.10, gstreamer-1.0.10, gtk+-3.10.1, gtkmm-3.9.16,
guile-1.8.8, guile-json-0.4.0, guile-ncurses-1.6, guile-ssh-0.7.1, guix-0.7,
guix-0.7.48bd76e, hello-2.10, help2man-1.46.3, icecat-31.2.0,
libart-lgpl-2.3.21, libassuan-2.1.3, libatomic-ops-7.4.2, libdrm-2.4.33,
libffi-3.1, libgc-7.2f, libgc-7.4.2, libgcrypt-1.5.4, libgcrypt-1.6.2,
libidn-1.29, libjpeg-9a, libotr-4.0.0, libsodium-1.0.0, libtasn1-4.1,
libunistring-0.9.4, libwebsockets-1.3, lightning-2.0.5, linux-libre-3.17.3,
lsof-4.88, lua-5.2.3, lvm2-2.02.109, lzip-1.16, make-4.1, maxima-5.34.1,
mit-scheme-9.2, mysql-5.1.73, neon-0.30.0, net-base-5.3, nettle-2.7.1,
notmuch-0.18.1, openssh-6.7p1, openssl-1.0.1j, parallel-20141022,
phonon-4.8.2, pspp-0.8.4, python-3.3.5, python-dateutil-1.5,
python2-dateutil-1.5, python2-pyicu-1.8, qt-4.8.6, qt-5.3.2, rcs-5.9.3,
readline-6.3, subversion-1.7.18, swig-3.0.2, tar-1.28, texinfo-5.2,
tor-0.2.5.10, transmission-2.84, ucommon-6.1.11, valgrind-3.10.0, vlc-2.1.5,
wget-1.16, windowmaker-0.95.6, xapian-1.2.18, xf86-video-ati-6.14.6,
xpdf-3.04, youtube-dl-2014.09.06

** Programming interfaces

*** New ‘ruby-build-system’, for Ruby packages

See “Build Systems” in the manual.

*** New ‘glib-or-gtk-build-system’, for packages using GLib schemas

See “Build Systems” in the manual.

*** ‘gnu-build-system’ has a new #:substitutable? parameter

This allows packagers to mark a package as requiring a local build, thus
preventing it from being substituted by a pre-built binary.

*** ‘cmake-build-system’ has a new #:build-type parameter

See “Build Systems” in the manual.

*** The ‘supported-systems’ field of packages is used more consistently

This allows packagers to prevent attempts to build a package on a given
architecture when that architecture is known not to be supported.  The
‘package-transitive-supported-systems’ procedure returns the intersection of
the systems supported by the given package and by its dependencies.

*** The ‘wrap-program’ procedure can now be called multiple times

*** New ‘graft-derivations’ and ‘package-grafts’ procedures

They implement “grafts”, as described under “Security Updates” in the manual.

*** New “bag” intermediate representation for use by build systems

“Bags” are used internally as an intermediate representation between packages
and derivations.  See “Build Systems” in the manual.

*** New (guix monad-repl) module, for monadic interaction at the REPL

See “The Store Monad” in the manual.

*** New (guix build emacs-utils) module, to facilitate building Emacs packages

*** New (guix tests) module, with tools used by the test suite

*** The internal ‘guix-register’ command now deduplicates files in store items

*** Several system modules moved from (guix build …) to (gnu build …)

Also, the (gnu build linux-boot) module has been introduced, with code
typically used by initial RAM disks when booting on GNU/Linux-libre.

*** (guix profiles) provides a representation of package transactions

This factorizes code between ‘guix package’ and the Emacs user interface.

*** Bootstrapping packages moved to (gnu packages commencement) modules

** Bugs fixed

*** ‘guix-daemon’ now really deduplicates store items by default

Deduplication means that identical files found in /gnu/store are stored only
once, using hard links.  This feature was wrongfully disabled, and is now
enabled by default.  The former ‘--disable-store-optimization’ option has been
renamed to ‘--disable-deduplication’.

*** ‘guix-daemon’ no longer uses ‘vfork’

This could cause problems with ancient Linux kernel.

*** Fixed compilation of ‘gccgo’ (<http://bugs.gnu.org/18101>)
*** 'make clean' doesn't delete os-config.tmpl (<http://bugs.gnu.org/18243>)
*** Fix handling of periods by fill-paragraph (<http://bugs.gnu.org/17468>)
*** Produce a top-level Info 'dir' file (<http://bugs.gnu.org/18305>)
*** guix offload ignores unreachable machines (<http://bugs.gnu.org/18070>)
*** guix offload: Ignore EEXIST when registering a .drv as a GC root
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/18115>)
*** perl-tk: Build sequentially (<http://bugs.gnu.org/18262>)
*** download: Use the 'SERVER NAME' TLS extension when possible
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/18526>)
*** libdaemon: Add alternate source URLs (<http://bugs.gnu.org/18639>)
*** icu4c: Reinstate RUNPATH on shared libraries 
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/18695>)
*** nss-mdns: Add alternate source URLs (<http://bugs.gnu.org/18704>)
*** download: Add "Accept: */*" to the HTTP headers
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/18768>)
*** guix-register: Do not attempt to create NIX_STORE_DIR 
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/18689>)
*** Allow Linux-libre to find our 'modprobe' command
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/18525>)
*** man-pages: Build sequentially (<http://bugs.gnu.org/18701>)
*** Fix intermittent test failures involving GC (<http://bugs.gnu.org/18935>)
*** guix import: pypi: Gracefully handle non-existent packages 
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/18831>)
*** Make sure the shared library has the '.so' extension
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/18521>)
*** pull: Use the build procedure provided by the newly-downloaded Guix.
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/18534>)
*** WindowMaker no longer pollutes $PATH (<http://bugs.gnu.org/18698>)

** Native language support
*** New translation: cs (Czech)
*** Updated translations: de, sr, vi

* Changes in 0.7 (since 0.6)
** Package management
*** Binaries for mips64el-linux now available from hydra.gnu.org

These come in addition to the x86_64-linux and i686-linux binaries already
provided, thanks to our generous donor and friendly admins.  See
“Substitutes” in the manual.

*** ‘guix package’ has a new ‘--show’ option
*** ‘guix refresh’ has a new ‘--list-dependent’ option

** Programming interfaces
*** New (guix gexp) module, which implements “G-expressions”

G-expressions are a new mechanism to embed build-side code in host-side
code.  See “G-Expressions” in the manual.

*** (gnu system) and related modules now use G-expressions

This greatly simplifies code, and guarantees that build code carries
references to the packages or derivations it uses.

*** ‘build-expression->derivation’ is deprecated in favor of G-expressions
*** The (gnu system) module has been largely augmented and factorized
*** New (guix build vm) module, support for virtual machine images
*** New (guix build activation) module, for “system activation”
*** New (guix build syscalls) module
*** New (guix build install) and module for whole system installation
*** New (gnu system install) module, for the installation system
*** New (gnu system file-systems) module, for ‘file-system’ declarations
*** New (gnu) module, which aggregates common (gnu …) modules
*** ‘service’ records now have an optional ‘activate’ field

This allows services to specify code to run at system activation time.

** GNU distribution
*** An image to install the GNU system from a USB stick is provided

This is the first time an installation image is provided.  See “System
Installation” in the manual for details.  This is work in progress as noted
in “Limitations”.  Your feedback and help are welcome!

*** Support for more parameters in ‘operating-system’ declarations

Operating system declarations can now provide a list of file systems, a list
of setuid programs, bootloader options, and more.  See “System Configuration”
in the manual.

*** ‘guix system’ supports more actions

Newly supported actions are ‘init’, ‘build’, ‘reconfigure’, and ‘disk-image’.
See “Invoking guix system” in the manual.

*** User accounts and groups are created at system activation time
*** Virtual machine support uses para-virtualized devices
*** GCC package now has an additional ‘lib’ output, for run-time support libs
*** GLib package now has a separate “bin” output (<http://bugs.gnu.org/17853>)
*** 134 new packages

abbaye, aegis, attica, babl, barcode, behave, btar, busybox, ccache, ccrtp,
chess, clucene, cmatrix, commoncpp, conkeror, cook, cssc, datamash, diffstat,
doxygen, dropbear, dtach, duplicity, e2fsck-static, exosip, fftw-openmpi,
fish, gconf, gegl, gimp, gmsh, gnome-mime-data, gnome-vfs, gnumeric, goffice,
gsegrafix, guile-opengl, guile-static-stripped, hdup, hwloc, inotify-tools,
jrnl, kbd, kmod, lftp, libarchive, libart-lgpl, libbonobo, libbonoboui,
libcroco, libdbusmenu-qt, libftdi, libglade, libgnome, libgnomecanvas,
libgnomeprint, libgnomeprintui, libgnomeui, libgsf, libidl, libmcrypt,
libmhash, librsvg, librsync, libsodium, libuv, libvpx, links, lzop, man-pages,
maxima, mcrypt, mosh, mpg123, mplayer, mu, ncmpcpp, node, notmuch, numactl,
offlineimap, openmpi, orbit2, osip, pangox-compat, perl-io-tty, petsc,
petsc-complex, petsc-complex-openmpi, petsc-openmpi, pingus, podofo, protobuf,
pt-scotch, python-enum34, python-keyring, python-lockfile, python-mock,
python-parse, python-parse-type, python-parsedatetime, python-pycrypto,
python-six, python-tzlocal, python2-lockfile, python2-mock, qjson, qrencode,
rasqal, rdiff-backup, rdup, redland, rottlog, scotch, sipwitch, sshfs-fuse,
strigi, sudo, superlu, superlu-dist, talkfilters, talloc, tcpdump, tinyproxy,
transmission, ucommon, udev, vlc, vtk, wakelan, wireless-tools,
wpa-supplicant, xboard, youtube-dl

*** 87 package updates

bitlbee-3.2.2, cursynth-1.5, ddrescue-1.18.1, dfc-3.0.4, dmd-0.2,
docbook-xml-4.3, docbook-xml-4.4, docbook-xsl-1.78.1, dvdisaster-0.72.6,
ffmpeg-2.3, fftw-3.3.4, fftwf-3.3.4, flac-1.3.0, gawk-4.1.1, gcc-4.7.4,
gcc-4.8.3, gcc-4.8.3, gcc-4.9.1, gcc-cross-mips64el-linux-gnuabi64-4.8.3,
gcc-objc++-4.8.3, gcc-objc-4.8.3, gcc-stripped-tarball-4.8.3,
gcc-toolchain-4.8.3, gcc-toolchain-4.9.1, gccgo-4.8.3, gdb-7.7.1,
gettext-0.19.2, gfortran-4.8.3, glib-2.40.0, global-6.3, gmp-6.0.0a,
gnupg-1.4.18, gnupg-2.0.25, gnutls-3.2.15, gp2c-0.0.9pl1, grep-2.20,
gst-plugins-base-1.0.10, gstreamer-0.10.36, gtk+-3.10.1, gtkmm-2.24.2,
guile-2.0.11, guile-2.0.11, guix-0.6, guix-0.6.0ae8c15, htop-1.0.3,
icu4c-53.1, imagemagick-6.8.9-0, json-c-0.12, libdrm-2.4.33, libgc-7.2e,
libgcrypt-1.5.3, libgpg-error-1.13, libjpeg-8d, libmicrohttpd-0.9.37,
libogg-1.3.2, libotr-4.0.0, libtasn1-3.6, libvorbis-1.3.4, lightning-2.0.4,
linux-libre-3.15.6, lua-5.1.5, lua-5.2.3, mcron-1.0.8, moe-1.6, nano-2.3.6,
neon-0.29.6, nettle-3.0, openssl-1.0.1h, parallel-20140722, pari-gp-2.7.1,
pspp-0.8.3, python-2.7.6, python-dateutil-2.2, python2-dateutil-2.2,
qemu-2.0.0, qemu-headless-2.0.0, qt-4.8.6, qt-5.2.1, readline-6.2,
screen-4.2.1, soprano-2.9.4, texinfo-5.2, texlive-2014, tor-0.2.4.22,
wdiff-1.2.2, xorriso-1.3.8, xterm-304

** Native language support
*** New translations: de (German), and hu (Hungarian)
*** Updated translations: eo, pt_BR, sr, vi
*** Package descriptions moved from the ‘guix’ text domain to ‘guix-packages’
** Bugs fixed
*** Downloads are now faster (<http://bugs.gnu.org/15368>)
*** ‘guix authenticate’ properly writes signatures to stdout
    (<http://bugs.gnu.org/17312>)
*** Progress report of downloads is now properly displayed
*** Error reporting of pk-crypto errors has been improved
*** The 'patches' field now works for origins with no extension
*** Synchronization and GC issues fixed in the offload hook
*** (guix ftp-client) emits USER commands suitable for all servers

* Changes in 0.6 (since 0.5)
** Package management
*** Default store directory changed to /gnu/store

Although it is still possible to configure Guix to use the old store
directory, we recommend that you start with a fresh install to /gnu/store.

*** Substitutes from hydra.gnu.org must now be signed and authorized
*** Support for offloading builds to other Guix machines over SSH
*** New ‘guix archive’ command
*** New ‘guix system’ command; it can currently build VM images
*** ‘guix package’ accepts several arguments after -i, -r, and -u
*** Updating a profile with ‘guix package’ is now noticeably faster
*** ‘guix build’ can override a package’s source with the new ‘--with-source’
*** ‘guix build’ has a new ‘--no-build-hook’ option
*** ‘guix’ commands that build packages have a common set of options
*** ‘guix hash’ has a new ‘--recursive’ option
*** Daemon no longer bind-mounts the host’s /dev (improves reproducibility)
** Programming interfaces
*** New (guix pk-crypto) and (guix pki) modules for public key cryptography
*** New #:local-build? parameter for derivations that shouldn’t be offloaded
*** (gnu system vm) has procedures to build VMs that share the host’s store
*** New ‘text-file*’ procedure in (guix monads)
*** System service definitions are now provided by the (guix services) modules
*** New X and SLiM services in (gnu services xorg)
*** New (guix git-download) and (guix svn-download) for git/svn checkouts
** GNU distribution
*** 91 new packages

a2ps, asciidoc, aspell-dict-en, aspell-dict-eo, aspell-dict-es,
aspell-dict-fr, aumix, bitlbee, bogofilter, boost, calcurse, clusterssh,
corkscrew, cursynth, docbook-xml, docbook-xsl, elfutils, enscript, fftwf,
fltk, fuse, gcc-toolchain, giflib, glade, gmime, gnome-desktop, gnubg, gnubik,
gnumach-headers, gnunet, gnuplot, gnurl, gphoto2, gtkglext, guile-json,
guile-reader-for-guile_2.0.11, gxmessage, hdf5, hurd-headers, inkscape, iotop,
isc-dhcp, iso-codes, jnettop, libatomic-ops, libexif, libgphoto2, libmpcdec,
libmpdclient, libotr, libpcap, libpeas, libpipeline, libtirpc, libwebsockets,
ltrace, luajit, lynx, man-db, mc, mig, miniupnpc, moe, mpc123, mpd, ncdc,
ncdu, ncmpc, neon, neon, octave, opus, paperkey, patchutils, perl-tk,
perl-x11-protocol, pinentry, python2-element-tree, python2-pybugz, quilt,
source-highlight, stalonetray, trueprint, ttf-dejavu, unionfs-fuse,
unionfs-fuse-static, uucp, vera, windowmaker, xapian, xterm

*** 90 package updates

apl-1.3, autoconf-2.68, automake-1.14.1, bash-4.3, bash-light-4.3,
bigloo-4.1a, binutils-2.24, binutils-static-stripped-tarball-2.24,
coreutils-8.22, curl-7.35.0, ed-1.10, ffmpeg-2.1.4, file-5.18, freeipmi-1.4.1,
gcc-4.8.2, gcc-4.8.2, gdb-7.7, gdbm-1.11, gettext-0.18.3.2, glib-2.39.1,
glibc-2.19, glibc-stripped-tarball-2.19, global-6.2.12, glpk-4.54,
gnu-pw-mgr-1.2, gnupg-1.4.16, gnutls-3.2.12, gp2c-0.0.8pl1, grep-2.18,
gst-plugins-base-0.10.36, gstreamer-1.0.10, gtk+-3.10.1, gtkmm-2.24.2,
guile-2.0.11, guile-ssh-0.6.0, guile-static-stripped-tarball-2.0.11,
guile-wm-1.0, guile-xcb-1.3, guix-0.5, help2man-1.45.1, icu4c-52.1,
imagemagick-6.8.8-10, inetutils-1.9.2, lapack-3.5.0, libcdio-0.92,
libdrm-2.4.46, libextractor-1.3, libgc-7.2e, libgc-7.4.0, libgcrypt-1.6.1,
libjpeg-9, libmicrohttpd-0.9.34, libssh-0.6.3, libtasn1-3.4, lightning-2.0.3,
linux-libre-3.13.7, mpc-1.0.2, mutt-1.5.23, net-base-5.2, ocrad-0.23,
openssh-6.6p1, openssl-1.0.1g, parallel-20140322, pari-gp-2.7.0, pspp-0.8.2,
pulseaudio-5.0, python-2.7.6, python-3.3.5, python-wrapper-3.3.5,
python2-pysqlite-2.6.3a, qemu-1.7.1, qemu-headless-1.7.1,
qemu-with-multiple-smb-shares-1.7.1, qt-4.8.5, qt-5.2.0, readline-6.3,
recutils-1.7, slim-1.3.6, sqlite-3.8.4.3, subversion-1.7.14, texinfo-4.13a,
tor-0.2.4.21, tzdata-2014a, units-2.11, valgrind-3.9.0, vim-7.4, wget-1.15,
xnee-3.18, xorriso-1.3.6.pl01, zile-2.4.11

*** New ‘gcc-toolchain’ meta-package, makes it easy to install a GCC tool chain
*** libc’s Info manual is now installed
*** Binutils is built with --enable-deterministic-archives
*** Packages that populated man/man* now populate share/man/man*
*** Many other packaging improvements
** Bugs fixed
*** ‘guix pull’ consumes less memory, compiles in parallel
*** ‘guix package --list-*’ gracefully handles EPIPE when used in a pipeline
*** ‘guix package’ handles collisions between a symlink and a directory
    (http://bugs.gnu.org/17083)
*** HTTP downloads provide a ‘User-Agent’ field (http://bugs.gnu.org/16703)
*** ‘guix package’ no longer shows misleading installed package number
    (http://bugs.gnu.org/16484)
*** Manual suggests ‘useradd --system’ (http://bugs.gnu.org/16289)
*** Python is built with ctypes support (http://bugs.gnu.org/16569)
*** HTTP/TLS connection not terminated properly (http://bugs.gnu.org/14884)
*** Gracefully handle poorly behaved HTTP servers (http://bugs.gnu.org/15733)

* Changes in 0.5 (since 0.4)
** Package management
*** GNU package descriptions synchronized with the ‘gnumaint’ repository

In addition to synopses, descriptions of GNU packages are now kept in sync
with the ‘gnumaint’ repository, which is the canonical place for GNU package
meta-data.

** Programming interfaces
*** Patches are now listed as part of ‘origin’

The ‘origin’ form supports two new fields: ‘patches’ (list of patches), and
‘snippet’ (code snippet to modify the source.)  These are applied when running
‘guix build --source’.  See “Defining Packages” in the manual.

*** New (guix monads) monadic interface to operate on the store

See “The Store Monad” in the manual.  The (gnu system …) modules have been
rewritten to use this monadic interface.

*** New (guix profiles) module

It provides an API for dealing with profiles, as with the ‘guix package’
command.

*** New (gnu system) module

This module provides a generic way to describe the system’s configuration,
and to instantiate it, regardless of the final medium (QEMU image, etc.)
See “System Configuration” in the manual.

This is work in progress.  Send feedback to guix-devel@gnu.org!

*** ‘build-expression->derivation’ uses more parameters

Some positional parameters have been changed to keyword parameters.
See “Derivations” in the manual.

** GNU distribution
*** New port to the Loongson MIPS64 processors, n32 ABI (‘mips64el-linux’)

Bootstrap binaries have been built for that architecture, and several
Loongson-specific patches not yet available upstream have been applied to core
packages.  See “GNU Distribution” and “Porting” in the manual.

Pre-built binaries are not yet available via hydra.gnu.org, so Guix will
build from source on this platform.

*** 110 new packages

acct, alive, alsa-utils, apl, at-spi2-atk, at-spi2-core, atkmm, autogen,
automoc4, brasero, bridge-utils, cairomm, catkin, complexity, evince, ffmpeg,
fftw, ftgl, gcc-objc, gcc-objc++, gccgo, gcl, gfortran, glibmm, glpk,
gnome-icon-theme, gnu-pw-mgr, gp2c, gpgme, gsettings-desktop-schemas, gtkmm,
gtksourceview, guile-ssh, guile-wm, gvpe, hicolor-icon-theme, httpd, icecat,
icon-naming-utils, json-c, lapack, libcanberra, libcap, libgnome-keyring,
libmikmod, libnl, libnotify, libsamplerate, libsigc++, libsndfile, libssh,
libtheora, libxkbcommon, mercurial, mtools, netcat, pangomm, parallel,
pavucontrol, pciutils, pem, perl-encode-locale, perl-file-list,
perl-file-listing, perl-html-parser, perl-html-tagset, perl-http-cookies,
perl-http-daemon, perl-http-date, perl-http-message, perl-http-negotiate,
perl-io-html, perl-libwww, perl-libxml, perl-lwp-mediatypes, perl-net-http,
perl-uri, perl-www-robotrules, perl-xml-dom, perl-xml-regexp, perl-xml-simple,
phonon, powertop, pulseaudio, python2-dogtail, python2-empy, qemu-headless,
qt, qt, raptor2, scons, sdl, sdl-gfx, sdl-image, sdl-mixer, sdl-net, sdl-ttf,
sdl2, serveez, shared-mime-info, sharutils, skribilo, slim, soprano, swig,
xcb-util, xcb-util-image, xcb-util-keysyms, xcb-util-renderutil, xcb-util-wm

*** 47 package updates

atk 2.10.0, bison 3.0.2, cmake 2.8.12, dmd 0.1, freeipmi 1.3.3, gcc 4.8.2,
gcc 4.8.2, gcc-cross-mips64el-linux-gnuabi64 4.8.2, gcc-stripped-tarball 4.8.2,
gdb 7.6.2, gettext 0.18.3.1, glib 2.38.0, global 6.2.9, gmp 5.1.3,
gnupg 2.0.22, gobject-introspection 1.38.0, grep 2.15, gsl 1.16,
gtk+ 2.24.21, gtk+ 3.10.1, guile 2.0.9, guile 2.0.9, guile-xcb 1.2,
harfbuzz 0.9.22, hello 2.9, iproute2 3.12.0, libdrm 2.4.46,
libextractor 1.2, libjpeg 9, libmicrohttpd 0.9.32, lightning 2.0.2,
linux-libre 3.12, lzip 1.15, make 4.0, mit-krb5 1.11.3, pari-gp 2.5.5,
pixman 0.32.4, python 3.3.2, qemu 1.6.1,
qemu-with-multiple-smb-shares 1.6.1, rcs 5.9.2, recutils 1.6, rsync 3.1.0,
tar 1.27.1, texinfo 5.2, units 2.02, xorriso 1.3.2

*** Packages are now built with GCC 4.8.2 by default (was 4.7.3)

** Native language support
*** New ‘sr’ (Serbian) translation
*** New ‘vi’ (Vietnamese) translation
*** Updated ‘pt_BR’ (Brazilian Portuguese) translation
** Bugs fixed
*** ‘guix pull’ compiles Guix deterministically and correctly

Previously, the build environment was not cleared in between ‘compile-file’
calls, leading to build errors due to Guile bug http://bugs.gnu.org/15602 .

*** ‘guix package’ allows removal of a specific package output
    (http://bugs.gnu.org/15756)
*** ‘guix-daemon’ always sets umask to 022
    (http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/bug-guix/2013-07/msg00033.html)
*** Files referenced by environment variables are protected from GC
*** Yet unbuilt packages get correctly installed (http://bugs.gnu.org/15283)
*** ‘bootstrap-graph.{png,eps,pdf}’ built in srcdir (http://bugs.gnu.org/15640)

* Changes in 0.4 (since 0.3)

** Package management

*** New ‘--list-generations’ and ‘--delete-generations’ options

The ‘guix package’ command has these two new options, which make it easier to
deal with a profile’s generation.  See “Invoking guix package” in the manual.

*** New ‘guix-register’ program

This program allows the meta-data of a new store to be initialized, by
copying info from an existing store.  It is mostly an internal tool.

** Programming interfaces

*** New API to bootstrap Autotools-based packages

The (guix build-system gnu) has a new ‘dist-package’ procedure that takes a
package object and source directory, and returns a new package object that
runs ‘./bootstrap && make dist’ or anything similar.

*** ‘derivation’ and related procedures have a #:references-graphs parameter

This parameter instructs the build daemon to populate the derivation’s build
tree with files containing the list of references of the given store files.
This is useful to write code that copies a packages and all its dependencies
to another storage device, such as a QEMU disk image.

*** Extended API to build a GNU system virtual machine image

The (gnu system vm) module has been augmented in many ways: the ‘qemu-image’
procedure can now populate and initialize the image’s store; the new
‘system-qemu-image’ procedure returns a QEMU image that runs dmd as its init
system, has ‘login’ running on several consoles, has a set of installed
packages, and where Guix can be used.

New (gnu system …) modules have been added to handle the configuration of the
various parts of a GNU/Linux system.  For instance, (gnu system dmd) provides
support for instantiating dmd services; (gnu system linux) helps with Linux
PAM configuration; and so on.

*** <derivation> objects supersede .drv file names in the API

‘derivation’ and similar procedures no longer return two values (a
<derivation> and a .drv file name); they now return a single value, which is
a <derivation> object.  The <derivation> object embeds the corresponding .drv
file name.  See “Derivations” in the manual for details.

** GNU distribution

*** 60 new packages

apr, apr-util, cdparanoia, dbus-glib, dfc, dmd, dvdisaster, exiv2, fetchmail,
freefont-ttf, freeglut, geeqie, git, gkrellm, glu, gnome-doc-utils,
gst-plugins-base, gstreamer, guile-cairo, guile-lib, guile-xcb, guix, htop,
itstool, lame, libextractor, libmicrohttpd, lightning, lzip, mingetty, mutt,
net-base, net-tools, ocrad, pspp, python-babel, python-dateutil, python-pytz,
python-setuptools, python-simplejson, python-wrapper, python2-babel,
python2-dateutil, python2-mechanize, python2-pyicu, python2-pysqlite,
python2-pytz, python2-setuptools, python2-simplejson, qemu-system-initrd,
qemu-with-multiple-smb-shares, ripperx, shadow, ttf-bitstream-vera, units,
valgrind, xmlto, xnee, yasm

*** 27 package updates

bigloo 4.0b, cairo 1.12.16, ddrescue 1.17, fontconfig 2.10.93, fplll 4.0.4,
gcc 4.7.3, gcc 4.7.3, glibc 2.18, glibc 2.18, glibc-stripped-tarball 2.18,
gnupg 2.0.21, gnutls 3.2.4, guile 2.0.9, guile 2.0.9, harfbuzz 0.9.21,
imagemagick 6.8.6-9, libdrm 2.4.46, libgcrypt 1.5.3, libjpeg 9, libksba 1.3.0,
linux-libre 3.11, m4 1.4.17, mpfrcx 0.4.2, pari-gp 2.5.4, python 2.7.5, python
3.3.2, texlive 2013

*** Fontconfig font search path made more convenient

Fontconfig, the library used by many graphical applications, such as those
based on GTK+, now knows where to find the default set of fonts.  Additional
fonts installed in the user profile are automatically picked up.

*** More GUI applications

The ‘emacs’ and ‘racket’ packages are now linked against GTK+.  New GTK+
applications have been added (see above.)

*** Packaging guidelines

The documentation of packaging guidelines has been augmented.  See the manual
under “GNU Distribution”.

*** Support for Python 3 along with Python 2

Python 3 has been added to the distribution, and Python packages that support
it are now built for both Python 2 and Python 3.  See the “Python Modules”
section of the manual for details.

** Internationalization

Updated translations: eo.

** Bugs fixed

*** Workarounds for Guile 2.0.5 now work on Debian derivatives
*** The dependency graph image has correct size in PDF output
*** 'ldd' now works correctly on x86_64
*** Xorg server test suite no longer fails (http://bugs.gnu.org/15392)
*** module-init-tools now builds (http://bugs.gnu.org/15182, http://bugs.gnu.org/15187)
*** Hop 2.4 builds with newer Bigloo (http://bugs.gnu.org/15194)

* Changes in 0.3 (since 0.2)

** Package management

*** Cross-compilation support

Guix can now cross-build packages.  On the command-line, this is achieved with
the new ‘--target’ command-line option of ‘guix build’.  At the Scheme level,
the guts of this is the ‘package-cross-derivation’ procedure.  Core packages
of the distribution can already be cross-compiled.  See the manual for
details.

*** New ‘--max-silent-time’ option for “guix build” and “guix package”

See the manual for details.

*** New ‘--fallback’ option for “guix build” and “guix package”

This option instructs to fall back to local builds when the substituter fails
to download a substitute.

*** New ‘--requisites’ option for “guix gc”

See the manual for details.

*** New ‘--key-download’ option for “guix refresh”

See the manual for details.

** Programming interfaces

*** New ‘package-cross-derivation’ procedure in (guix derivations)

See the manual for details.

*** New ‘%current-target-system’ SRFI-39 parameter

This parameter is like ‘%current-system’, but for cross-compilation.  It
allows code in package definitions (such as in the ‘arguments’ field) to know
whether it is being cross-compiled, and what the target system is.

*** New (guix hash) module; new ‘open-sha256-port’ and ‘sha256-port’ procedures

This improves performance of SHA256 computations.


** GNU distribution

*** 33 new packages

alsa-lib, babel, cairo, cvs, gcal, gcc-cross-mips64el-linux-gnuabi64, gd,
gdk-pixbuf, graphviz, grue-hunter, gtk+, gts, harfbuzz, imagemagick, iproute2,
iptables, libspectre, mpg321, noweb, pango, plotutils, privoxy, pytz, racket,
rubber, rush, strace, tk, torsocks, unrtf, vc-dwim, wordnet, xlockmore

*** 25 package updates

automake 1.14, ed 1.9, freeipmi 1.2.8, gawk 4.1.0, gcc 4.8.1, gettext 0.18.3,
glib 2.37.1, gmp 5.1.2, gnutls 3.2.1, gzip 1.6, help2man 1.43.3, libapr 1.4.8,
libaprutil 1.5.2, libassuan 2.1.1, libffi 3.0.13, libgc 7.2d, libgpg-error
1.12, libidn 1.28, libpng 1.5.17, lout 3.40, lsh 2.1, nettle 2.7.1, qemu
1.5.1, tzdata 2013d, xorriso 1.3.0

*** Binary packages now available for i686-linux

The build farm at http://hydra.gnu.org now provides 32-bit GNU/Linux binaries
(i686-linux), in addition to the x86_64-linux binaries.  Both can be
transparently used as substitutes for local builds on these platforms.

*** Debug info packages

Some packages now have a “debug” output containing debugging information.  The
“debug” output can be used by GDB, and can be installed separately from the
other outputs of the package.  See “Installing Debugging Files” in the manual.

*** Bootstrap binaries can be cross-compiled

The distribution can now be ported to new architectures (currently
GNU/Linux-only) by cross-compiling the “bootstrap binaries”.  See “Porting”
in the manual.

*** Bootstrapping documented

See “Bootstrapping” in the manual, for information on how the GNU
distribution builds “from scratch”.

** Internationalization

New translations: eo, pt_BR.

** Bugs fixed
*** “guix --help” now works when using Guile 2.0.5
*** Binary substituter multi-threading and pipe issues fixed

These could lead to random substituter crashes while substituting a binary.
See commits 0332386 and 101d9f3 for details.

*** Binary substituter gracefully handles lack of network connectivity

*** Daemon properly handles rebuilds of multiple-output derivations

Previously it would fail when rebuilding a multiple-output derivation when
some (but not all) of its outputs were already present.  See
http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/bug-guix/2013-06/msg00038.html and
https://github.com/NixOS/nix/issues/122 .

*** ‘guix package -i foo:out’ no longer removes other outputs of ‘foo’

Previously only the ‘out’ output of package ‘foo’ would be kept in the
profile.

*** Replacement (srfi srfi-37) provided if the user’s one is broken

When the user’s (srfi srfi-37) is affected by http://bugs.gnu.org/13176 (Guile
< 2.0.9), a replacement with the bug fix is provided.  This bug would affect
command-line argument processing in some cases.

* Changes in 0.2 (since 0.1)

** Package management

*** Guix commands are now sub-commands of the “guix” program

Instead of typing “guix-package”, one now has to type “guix package”, and so
on.  This has allowed us to homogenize the user interface and initial program
setup, and to allow commands to be upgradable through “guix pull”.

*** New “guix package --upgrade” option

As the name implies, this option atomically upgrades all the packages
installed in a profile or the set of packages matching a given regexp.
See “Invoking guix package” in the manual.

*** New “guix package --search” option

Performs a full text search in package synopses and descriptions, and returns
the matching packages in recutils format.  See “Invoking guix package” in the
manual, for details.

*** New “guix pull” command

The command pulls the latest version of Guix–both the package management
modules and the distribution.  See the manual for details.

*** New binary substituter

The “substituter” mechanism allows pre-built binaries to be transparently
downloaded instead of performing a build locally.  Currently binaries are
available for x86_64 Linux-based GNU systems from http://hydra.gnu.org.  The
distribution is continuously built and binaries are made available from there.

See http://hydra.gnu.org/jobset/gnu/master under “Job status” for the list of
available binary packages.

*** New “guix refresh” command

The command is used by Guix maintainers.  It automatically updates the
distribution to the latest upstream releases of GNU software.

*** New “guix hash” command

Convenience command to compute the hash of a file.  See the manual for
details.

*** Nix daemon code updated

The daemon code from Nix, used by the ‘guix-daemon’ command, has been updated
to current Nix ‘master’.

** Programming interfaces

*** (guix download) now supports HTTPS, using GnuTLS

It allows package source tarballs to be retrieved over HTTPS.

*** New ‘native-search-path’ and ‘search-path’ package fields

Packages can define in their ‘native-search-path’ field environment variables
that define search paths and need to be set for proper functioning of the
package.  For instance, GCC has ‘CPATH’ and ‘LIBRARY_PATH’ in its
‘native-search-path’, Perl has ‘PERL5LIB’, Python has ‘PYTHONPATH’, etc.
These environment variables are automatically set when building a package that
uses one of these.

*** Package inputs can be a function of the target system type

The ‘inputs’ field of a package can now be conditional on the value of
(%current-system).  This is useful for packages that take system-dependent
tarballs as inputs, such as GNU/MIT Scheme.

*** New build systems

The ‘perl-build-system’, ‘python-build-system’, and ‘cmake-build-system’ have
been added.  They implement the standard build systems for Perl, Python, and
CMake packages.

*** Tools to build Linux initrds, QEMU images, and more

The (gnu packages linux-initrd) module provides a procedure to build a Linux
initrd (“initial RAM disk”).  The initrd embeds Guile, which is used to
evaluate the given expression.  The example below returns an initrd that
mounts the /proc file system and starts a REPL:

  (expression->initrd
    '(begin
       (mkdir "/proc")
       (mount "none" "/proc" "proc")
       ((@ (system repl repl) start-repl))))

More examples in the linux-initrd.scm file.

Experimental interfaces to produce and use QEMU images are provided by the
(gnu system vm) module.  For instance, the
‘expression->derivation-in-linux-vm’ evaluates the given Scheme expression in
a QEMU virtual machine running the Linux kernel and Guile.

** GNU distribution

Many updates and additions have been made to the distribution.  Here are the
highlights.

*** Major updates

GCC 4.7.3 (the default) and GCC 4.8.0, Binutils 2.23.2, Guile 2.0.9,
Coreutils 8.20, GDB 7.6, Texinfo 5.1.

*** Noteworthy new packages

TeXLive, Xorg, GNU GRUB, GNU Parted, QEMU and QEMU-KVM, Avahi, Bigloo,
CHICKEN, Scheme48, Hugs, Python, Lua, Samba.
